From Sola Ojo, Kaduna Ahead of the March 11 governorship election in several of the 36 States, the Jaba Local Government Council Administrator and only woman in that capacity across the 23 LGAs in Kaduna State, Mrs. Nita Byack George is canvassing massive support for the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Sen. Uba Sani. According to her, Uba Sani has grown politically over the years and possessed both the technocrat and political experiences needed to govern the State better after Governor Nasir El-Rufai. In an interview in Karuna, Nita specifically called on women and young persons in the State to elect the lawmaker currently representing Kaduna Central in the Senate as their next governor for more inclusive governance. “Apart from the fact Sen Uba Sani is the candidate of my party which is APC, he is someone I admire as a politician. I have seen him growing politically. Some politicians grow through rank and some start from a political level. “Both are okay. However, there is that tin line of possibility that someone who has grown through the rank would do better because he or she must have touched diverse experiences along the way. “In this case, he is that person who has grown, gotten the experience, and surrounded himself with persons of intellect and vision he is coming up with will not be a problem forthwith. *Again, as an Administrator, I have been working with Governor Nasir El-Rufai where Sen. Uba Sani is more of a mentee of Mr. Governor in that capacity and most of the things he has done should not halt at any point. “We need someone who can connect with that vision. He also has his own experience around development, especially as the Chairman Senate Committee on Banking and other Financial Institutions where he is making a lot of impacts. “You see a female deputy governor and as well in acting capacity as governor in the North. You found commissioners who are women in key sectors like the ministry of local government and chieftaincy affairs, the Planning and Budget Commission, and several others holding key offices. “This means the space is already there for women to grow. So, it behooves us as women not to see ourselves as the weaker vessels we are called because that is not the reality but a perception of certain persons. “So, all of these experiences on the parts of the outgoing governor and the incoming governor by the grace of God will readily come in handy to give Kaduna people across all strata a better dividend of democracy. “I’m using this opportunity to call on women and more young persons to come into political space particularly to support Uba Sani because he is a candidate of a political party that is deliberate in the inclusion of women, young people, and persons with disability”, she said.