The Managing Director, Galaxy Backbone (GBB), Prof. Muhammad Abubakar, said the Federal Government blocked over 200 cyber attacks during the Presidential and National Assembly elections held on February 25. He made the disclosure at the opening session of a two-day Ministerial Training for GBB’s Board members and management staffers yesterday in Abuja. The training is tagged: “Positioning the GBB Team for Effective Management and Leadership in the 4th Industrial Revolution.” Abubakar said a business continuity and cyberspace protection committee had been formed to guard and regulate digital activities while optimising the GBB’S Technical Services. He said the training was aimed at reviewing the agency’s performance while initiating alternative means of revenue generation.  “On the election day alone, we were able to block more than 200 attacks and the next day, the attacks geometrically increased to about 1.2 million and all were blocked from our own businesses,” he said.  The Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Pantami, said the training was aimed at evaluating and recalibrating the Galaxy Backbone Limited, in regards to management and leadership for optimal outputs.  Pantami, who served as the training facilitator, applauded GBB’s approach to digital infrastructural development while saving cost of governance.  “In this training, I will be very much sincere with you to point out some areas where we need significant improvement.  “Training is key when it comes to improving our performance, and at the same time, training is key when it comes to our self-evaluation, self-judgement, self-assessment.  “We need to think out of the box to discover new areas for government revenue generation. We need to be proactive in our thinking; let us not maintain the same process everyday when it comes to revenue generation,” he said.  The ministry had, on February 23, inaugurated a committee for cyberspace and information and communication technology (ICT) infrastructure protection, ahead of the general elections.