From Okwe Obi, Abuja A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Borno State, Dr Abiso Kabir, has said the victory of Bola Tinubu as president-elect will positively reshape the country for the better. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), on Wednesday declared Tinubu the winner of the February 25 presidential poll with a vote of 8,794,726 million. Kabir, who is the National Chairman of the Forum of Tinubu-Shettima Support Groups and the APC Presidential Campaign Council Deputy Director Special Duties III, stated this in a congratulatory message to Tinubu on Wednesday. According to him, Tinubu’s win will attract greatness to Nigeria. He stated that the combination of Senators Ahmed Tinubu and Kashim Shettima as the president and vice president will boost the economy through all sectors. Kabir said the duo who are versed in financial management, have been tested and trusted. He added that they would steadily steer the ship of the Nigerian state to a prosperous and healthy one to the admiration of all. According to him, With Tinubu and Shettima’s win, Nigerians will no longer go abroad in search of greener pastures as there will be an enabling environment for everyone to thrive. Kabir noted that the duo will not only continue with projects President Muhammadu Buhari has initiated especially in agriculture but will create more projects that will benefit everyone particularly women and youth. He said as governor of Lagos State, Tinubu Governor Tinubu turned around the economy of the state and put it on a continuous and sustainable growth trajectory, while Shettima as governor of Borno State, excelled in the line of fire as the state witnessed monumental strides from- 2011-2019 when he was the governor despite the sustained and continuous threats posed by Boko Haram and other terrorist groups. “Tinubu and Shettima are experienced Nigerians and with this know where the shoe pinches, they know where Nigeria fails, and they know what to do, and because they are so experienced with both private and public backgrounds they will hit the ground running from day one. “Nigeria will become a destination of trade where other countries of the world will visit for businesses,” Kabir added.