From Gyang Bere, Jos A group under the Plateau Peace and Mediation Working Committee has applauded Plateau people for orderly and peaceful conduct during the Presidential and National Assembly elections. In a press statement signed by the Chairman, Dr. Dinshak Luka Dajahar and Secretary Mr. Paul Jatau called for calm over the current tension in some areas which could escalates.  “We wish to appreciate the people of Plateau State for their conduct in the ongoing general elections. It has been largely peaceful. We observe that in a few places, there has been tension which could escalate if not properly managed we will all end up being looses.  “There is no gain saying the fact that there would alway be winners and looses in any contest. Losing on a continues contest such as the periodic elections is only temporary as contenders could ordinarily go back to re-strategise for the next opportunity. “There have been several occasions in our state where those who lost before won another time. It is all a game of a person’s ability to command oneself  to the electorate and performance at the period of a service for those seeking re-election.” It noted that the electoral process which produces the winner s and losers in not wholly trusted by the politicians and electorates. “Questions of credibility and fairness usually trial the electoral umpire in virtually every election. Sadly, the justice system is also not considered strong enough to deliver justice to aggrieved parties.  “This has often led to parties taking it upon themselves to personally address any perceived infraction through violence which often leads to destruction of properties, injuries and even loss of lives in so many cases. This is most sad.”  The statement noted that Plateau has gone through alot for about two decades and said there is need for rethink whenever there is tension concerning issues in the state. “We need to rethink whenever there is tension concerning any issues and note that a single wrong step can spark off yet another cycle of violence that none of us can predict.”