From Okwe Obi, Abuja Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development has inaugurated a transition committee, in line with the presidential transition council directive. The Committee was inaugurated by the ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Nasir Sani Gwarzo, yesterday in Abuja. Gwarzo stated that President Muhammadu Buhari approved the establishment of a presidential transition council, to facilitate and manage the 2023 transition programme. According to him, President Buhari also signed the Executive Order No. 14 of 2023 on the Facilitation and Management of the Presidential Transitions on 9th February 2023 and directed that the Council to be inaugurated by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation on 14th February 2023. He said a key feature of the Presidential Executive Order No. 14 of 2023 is the institutionalization of a legal framework that would enable a seamless transition of power from one Presidential Administration to another which is part of President Buhari’s legacy. “In view of the above, it has become necessary for the Ministry to set up a Ministerial Committee for the collation and development the Handing Over Notes of the entire Humanitarian Sector and come up with a Transition Plan to enable the Ministry interface with the Presidential Transition Council which will be rather soon. Therefore, it is important to Note that time is of the essence here”. He said this committee is expected to ensure the collation and harmonization of the Handing Over Notes from all Departments, Agencies and Programmes under the supervision of the, Ministry in the approved Template. The Permanent Secretary emphasized that the committee has 3 weeks to complete this very important assignment and submit the first draft on Tuesday, 28th March 2023. All the necessary logistics he said will be provided to ensure that the Notes are ready within the stipulated time frame ahead of the Presidential Transition Council visit to the Ministry. “All submission must be in both hard and soft copies to enable the Secretariat to collate, harmonize and produce the first draft for vetting,” he added.