From Okwe Obi, Abuja National Orientation Agency (NOA), has commended aggrieved politicians and political parties that went to court to seek legal redress as against taking the laws into their hands to wreck chaos in the aftermath of the presidential and national assembly polls. NOA noted that violence should not be given a pride of place in order not to truncate the country’s nascent democracy. Director General of the Agency, Gaarba Abari, spoke yesterday at a breakfast meeting with media executives in Abuja in collaboration with International Alert with the support of the United Kingdom Conflict Security and Stability Fund (CSSF). Abari pointed out that one of the biggest challenges of Nigeria was the inability of stakeholders to manage post-election situation, faulting the closure of schools, and restrict movement on election day just to ensure that citizens do not run into violence associated with election. He claimed that even before the commencement of the elections, NOA had embarked on a campaign to douse tension which, to an extend restrained aggrieved voters from descending to anarchy. He said: “Some of the political parties who feel that they rather than the declared candidate, won the presidential elections have headed to court. Their decision to vent their disagreement through legal laid down channels is commendable. “We have not noticed significant disagreement with the outcome of the National Assembly election so far. What is however, noteworthy is that the National Assembly election has produced the most diverse parliament with more than seven political parties making strong appearance on the national scene. “One of the parties, surprised bookmakers with a performance that has continued to be the talk of the town. “The full detail of our observation will be made available after the coming March 11, governorship and state Assembly election.” He appealed to the media not to magnify political narrative that divides the country along ethnic and tribal line “I have a special appeal to the media. You have a role to play now. Do not magnify the political narratives that divide our country and our people. “Democracy is about the contest of ideas and was never meant to produce violent outcomes. Let us all work towards the peace that we so desire for us and generations yet unborn. “As we approach the next set of elections this weekend, it is important that our people continue to conduct themselves in a peaceful and orderly manner as we continue to work together towards a violence free and credible elections,” he said.