From Magnus Eze, Enugu Political, religious and traditional leaders of Nkanu land, including other major stakeholders and opinion molders drawn from the six local government areas of Enugu East Senatorial District, have declared that their people are not at war with the Nsukka cultural zone over the governorship of the state. At a meeting convened by elder statesman and former governor of old Anambra State, Chief Jim Nwobodo, at his Amechi Awkunanaw home, Nkanu people resolved to pursue the governorship bid of their son, Mr. Peter Mbah, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in a peaceful manner devoid of any iota of violence. The meeting came on the heels of a viral video showing where the Labour Party senator-elect for Enugu North District, Mr. Okey Ezea, while addressing his people, purportedly told them that the March 11  election would be ‘a do-or-die affair.’ But, Ezea in a swift reaction debunked the claim, stressing that what he said was being misconstrued for political gains, noting that he was rather calling on the youths to ensure violence-free election. He, however, apologised to those who were offended by “the innocuous statement,” which he said was “intended to enhance free and fair election.” In a communique signed by a former Commissioner for Lands in the state, Deacon Okey Ogbodo, the prominent sons and daughters of Nkanu land, among all the candidates of all the political parties contesting for the governorship of the state, endorsed and agreed to vote for Mbah of the PDP. They said: “Nkanu is one and will continue to be one both now and after election. Any other candidate of Nkanu extraction for the March 11 election outside Peter Mbah of the PDP is on his own and does not have Nkanu support nor will they have Nkanu vote on the March 11 governorship election. “That we affirm the already established governorship rotation principal among the three senatorial zones of Enugu State, which has been effective since 1999 and will continue to rotate to the deserving senatorial zone after Enugu East Senatorial zone would have ended its turn.”