From TONY JOHN Port Harcourt A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Joe Korka-Waadah, has said that the electorate must reject continuity of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP)-led administration in the state because the cabal placed their selfish interests above the people. Korka-Waadah, a Canada-based political management consultant, stated this ahead of March 11, 2023, governorship and House of Assembly elections. He said the forthcoming governorship and House of Assembly elections are most critical to the lives of Rivers people and they cannot afford to make the wrong choices because the future of their kids and even generations unborn are tied to the outcome of the polls. Korka-Waadah said: “My question to Rivers people, are you better off now than you were eight years ago? I believe the answer would be a resounding no. I totally agree with them, because the state is governed with an iron fist where only the interest of Wike’s cabal comes first. “Many have lost faith in their government and no longer able to put food on their table. Kids hitherto under scholarships are kicked out of schools because they are unable to pay their fees. “Penultimate Saturday, they witnessed a governor skew their mandate to favour a candidate they never voted for, with impunity. “The last presidential election will go down as a day in infamy. A day their mandate was stolen by their own governor. I do not believe young people would allow that to happen again come March 11th on the governorship and house of Assembly elections.  “The only way to create a better future for our children is to stop the governor from gaining a third term by imposing a placeholder on Rivers people. Rivers people need a new direction. Pastor Tonye Cole and  Innocent Barikor, indeed APC is the way to go. “A vote for them will restore our state to the envious position it occupied as the most promising State where education thrives under the previous administration of Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi. “As you come out 11th March and vote Tonye Cole, endeavour to wait for your votes to be counted,  imputed and transmitted before going back home. I have my hope in the abilities of the young people to change the narratives come March 11th.”