From Romanus Ugwu , Abuja  The North-Central All Progressives Congress (APC) Forum has called on the party’s leadership to zone  the position of the Speaker of the 10th House of Representatives to the region. Convener of the forum, Dominic Alancha,  at a news conference, yesterday, in Abuja, said the region deserve the position having worked hard for the party. He said this was especially considering the outstanding performance of the region in the just concluded presidential and National Assembly election and for fairness and equity. He congratulated Bola Tinubu, the president-elect  saying his victory  showed that democracy was working in Nigeria and that the people’s preference prevailed against all odds. Alancha commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for conducting a  free, fair, credible and transparent election, saying February 25 polls were the best in the country since the return of democracy in 1999. Alancha said the region’s outstanding performance in the presidential election was a testament to the fact that the region remains the swing zone in the country. He added that the election results showed that any party that the zone flips to, was primed to win. “It is on record that since the 2015, 2019 and now in 2023 respectively the North-Central has been flipping APC for victory. Indeed, our region has remained faithful to the ideals of the APC for good course. It will not be out of place if we as a region call on our great party, the APC to consider and zone the position of the Speaker of the 10th House of Representatives to the North-central,” he said. Alancha noted that electoral victory of Tinubu was indeed inspiring and exciting, adding that all hurdles on the way of the president-elect were dismantled by Nigerians. “His victory though long foretold, is a reaffirmation that sacrifice, dedication, hard work and friendship across all fault lines has its own reward. Tinubu’s leadership style should become a reference point in our country before long. May God bless our leader with good health and the requisite vision to birth the dawn of a new and prosperous Nigeria,” Alancha said. He commended the professionalism of the security forces for their neutrality, adding that they conducted themselves as true professionals. He thanked President Mohammadu Buhari for his unwavering commitment to leaving a legacy of transparent elections and his devotion to the Nigeria of our dreams, saying he was a true statesman and father of the nation.