From Paul Osuyi, Asaba  The All Progressive Congress (APC) in Delta State has described allegations of planned disruption of next Saturday’s Governorship/State House of Assembly election raised by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) as the frenetic kick of a dying horse. The state PDP had on Thursday had accused the APC of planning to cause mayhem, kill and snatch ballot boxes during the elections, and called on security agencies to rise to the occasion and arrest one Aruviere Martins, a supposed member of APC. Reacting on Friday, the state publicity secretary of APC, Valentine Onojeghuo, said the allegation was not only hysterical but absolutely absurd and bizarre. Onojeghuo said the allegation by the PDP was an admission of it’s impending defeat on March 11, adding that it also exposed the true intentions of the ruling party in the state to disrupt the polls through violence and mayhem having lost the presidential election. He recalled that some weeks prior to the presidential elections, APC raised the alarm of “plans by the PDP to cause violence and mayhem in the state using vehicles parked in the premises of a new generation bank that is allegedly owned by the Okowa family and branded in colours similar to those of party. It is therefore not surprising that this press release by the PDP has served to confirm those fears earlier raised by party.  “It beats sane imagination for the PDP, a party that is notoriously renowned for its  years of political violence, thuggery, ballot boxes snatching and mayhem in achieving political power at every elections conducted in Delta State, to now turned around to accuse the APC that is reputed for being a law abiding party, the very same thing it was planning to do on March 11 governorship polls.” According to him, having lost out in the presidency, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa and the PDP have decided to throw out every sense of decency and resort to executing worn out tactics of political killings, cult gangsterism, mayhem, thuggery ballot boxes snatching, in trying to salvage an already dead party in the governorship elections on March 11. “There is no doubt that it is only the maniacally convoluted mindsets of PDP hirelings that can out of the warped desperation of a morbid fear of impending defeat, twist the personal comments of members of a political party to be that of its official position in a vain attempt to score cheap political  blackmail and intimidation.  “While it has been the fundamental principles of our party to at all times maintain the peace by being law abiding even in the face of extreme provocations by goons of the PDP, the pertinent question begging for answer, is whether or not, the claims of Aruviere Martins are not true.  “Presently, APC members across the state are being intimidated and harassed daily by thugs and agberos engaged by the PDP in order to scare them away from their homes, wards and units,” he alleged. Onojeghuo said it was a sign of rejection for the sitting Governor Okowa who is the vice presidential candidate of PDP to lose the state to opposition parties during the presidential election, noting that the PDP has now decided to embark on a do or die approach in a bid to get a stooge, Sheriff Oborevwori, elected as governor. “The APC wishes to state categorically, that no amount of intimidation, harassment, threat of violence or mayhem by the PDP will be sufficient to derail our resolve and that of the people of Delta State in exercising their free will, to once and for all, vote out of the calamitous PDP administration that has brought Delta State to its knees due to its failed policies, on the 11th March, 2023.  “The APC therefore called on all Deltans not to be hoodwinked by the shenanigans of these political psychos whose reign of terror and thievery is at an end, but to come out and vote en masse for the APC on the 11th March, 2023  for a new Delta driven by the EDGE agenda,” Onojeghuo added.