One year after the Russian invasion of Ukraine on February 24, 2022, there is no end in sight to the debilitating war. President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine referred to the first day of the invasion as the longest day of their lives. He pledged to push for victory in 2023 as he bestowed medals on soldiers and the mother of a deceased soldier at a ceremony in St. Sophia Square, Kyiv, the country’s capital. “We withstand all threats, shelling, cluster bombs, cruise missiles, kamikaze drones, blackouts,” Zelensky said, adding, “And we will do everything to gain victory this year.” The East European nation has called for international assistance to be able to continue to prosecute the war against Russia, which currently occupies nearly a fifth of Ukraine.   Russia’s invasion was precipitated by Ukraine’s intention to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO). President Vladimir Putin of Russia explained that his country’s action was to protect Russia’s security, prevent Ukraine from joining NATO and to keep it in Russia’s sphere of influence. This is a war that should have been avoided if Putin had allowed reason to prevail. At the early stage of the war, China, India, Turkey and the United Nations (UN) tried to broker peace. This did not work. Recently, China also called for a ceasefire and an end to the sanctions against Russia. But there is no sign that the two countries are ready for peace yet. “There is rage and a desire to avenge the fallen,” Ukrainian defence minister, Oleksii Reznikov, said. In a defiant display of solidarity, United States (US) President, Joe Biden, made a surprise visit to Kyiv where he held talks with President Zelensky on February 20, 2023. Already, Putin has suspended the nuclear arms race treaty Russia had with the US. He accused the West of a plan to strategically defeat Russia. This could lead to the deployment of nuclear arsenal in the war. Besides, rather than push for an end to the war, Western nations planned to tighten sanctions against Russia. They have also increased military aid to Ukraine. The US, for instance, recently announced a new $2billion worth of military aid to Ukraine and a new regime of sanctions aimed at hitting Russia’s mining and metals industries. Poland recently delivered four German-made advanced Leopard 2A4 tanks to Ukraine. The NATO country said more Leopards were coming. In June last year, the West supplied Ukraine more weapons, including the US-supplied HIMARS multiple rocket launchers. About 50 countries, including US, United Kingdom (UK), Australia, and South Korea are providing economic and military support to Ukraine. On the side of Russia are Iran, North Korea and Belarus. These countries reportedly support Russia with arms and logistics. So far, the war has had a debilitating effect on both sides, especially Ukraine. Tens of thousands of Ukrainian civilians have died. Many soldiers on both sides have also died. Millions of people have been fatally wounded, millions more displaced from their homes. Homes, schools, hospitals and many private and public properties have been destroyed. Russia’s biggest tank factories are shut down due to their inability to gain access to the input needed to repair or rebuild tanks. Over 9,000 Russian tanks have reportedly been destroyed over the past year. Last September, Putin ordered mobilisation of 300,000 reservists. This prompted hundreds of thousands of Russian men to flee to neighbouring countries to avoid recruitment. The effect of the war is felt even outside the two countries. For instance, the war has exacerbated food insecurity in some parts of the world, including Nigeria. It has heightened the rate of poverty in the world. Ukraine is a major producer of wheat. The war has engendered scarcity of the commodity. Hence, bakers who rely on wheat from Ukraine have found it difficult to cope. It has destabilised energy markets as well. Energy crisis that is ravaging Europe and some other parts of the world is as a result of the war. Russia is a major supplier of gas. The war has also undermined global peace and security.Nigerian students studying in Ukraine have had their education truncated. Some have had to continue their studies elsewhere in Europe and Nigeria.   One of the major objectives of founding the UN in 1945 is to engender peace in the world. We call on the UN Security Council to intervene and call the two warring countries to order. We also call on world powers to work towards amicable solution. Whatever is the cause of the war could be settled amicably through dialogue. No doubt, there is need for the two parties to broker peace. Continuing the war may lead to a global disaster. Leaders are always advised not to go to war because of ego. Putin boasted, but Russia has even suffered more than projected. We appeal to the combatants, especially Putin, to bring this war to an end. The one year anniversary of the war should be used for sober reflection on both sides. The bloodletting must stop.