From Okwe Obi, Abuja New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) has said its presidential candidate, Rabiu Kwankwaso, did not congratulate the president-elect, Bola Tinubu, on his victory because the poll was flawed. The National Publicity Secretary, Agbo Major, in a statement, yesterday, said reports circulating that Kwankwaso congratulated Tinubu was a figment of the fertile imagination of anti-democrats, political hirelings and fifth columnists leveraging on the popularity of the party’s presidential flag bearer. He said the party rejected the outcome of the election because it did not reflect the wish and mandate of Nigerians who trooped out to vote. According to him, the mood of the nation since the electoral body declared Tinubu the winner of the election clearly showed that it was justice juxtaposed and unacceptable to majority of Nigerians who desire and deserve a new Nigeria which only the NNPP can usher in.  “Kwankwaso did not congratulate Tinubu on the grossly flawed, contentious and disputed presidential election.  “The report that Kwankwaso congratulated Tinubu was a figment of the fertile imagination of anti-democrats, political hirelings and fifth columnists leveraging on the popularity of the party’s presidential flag bearer. “NNPP rejects the outcome of the February 25, 2023 presidential election as it did not reflect the will, wish and mandate of the Nigerians who trooped out to vote but were disappointed by the failure of INEC to conduct credible and transparent election and fulfil its promise to upload the polling units results to its portals which would have guaranteed the authenticity of the results and declaration of the winner of the presidential election. “Sadly, the presidential poll turned out to be a charade as it failed to meet the expectation of Nigerians and the international community.  “NNPP was a target of these electoral robbers who want the status quo to remain, in place of the new and better Nigeria the party promised if voted into office. “It is unthinkable that Kwankwaso would hastily congratulate Tinubu on his questionable mandate which other candidates also claimed they won and had approached the court to seek redress.  “All lovers of democracy, due process and rule of law will wait for the determination of the election petitions in court. Until the court decides them one way or the other, it will be preposterous for NNPP that was rigged out in most of its strongholds across the country to concede defeat and congratulate INEC’s imposed winner.  “The mood of the nation since the electoral body mischievously declared Tinubu the winner of the election clearly showed that it was justice juxtaposed, absolutely unacceptable to majority of Nigerians who desire and deserve a new Nigeria which only the NNPP can usher in.  “March 11 is another date with destiny as Nigerians go to the polls to choose their governors and state legislators. It is yet another opportunity to vote for NNPP candidates for a better, greater and prosperous Nigeria. Join us to make it happen and experience a better life,” he said.