By Rita Okoye Fast rising actress and skit maker, Aluko Gold aka Diva Gold, has listed her expectations from her potential lover or husband. In this interview, the Ise, Ekiti State-born thespian also shared her success story, challenges and how she overcame them. Here are excerpts: Can you tell us more about your background? My name is Aluko Gold popularly known as Diva Gold. I am from Ekiti State, Ise precisely. I’m an entertainer, content creator, skit maker, Influencer, model and actress. I grew up in Akure in a family of six. I attended Cabataf Nursery and Primary School before I proceeded to Saint Louis Girls Grammar School, Akure. But then, my university education took me out of Akure to Iwo, Osun State where I attended Bowen University and graduated in 2017. How long have you been into entertainment? My first movie appearance was in 2015 on Jenifas Diary as an extra. Fast forward to 2016 when I got a feature in another movie produced by Kunle Afod. In 2017, I got a proper role on Jenifa’s Diary, where I played Sege’s sister. Since then, I’ve been in and out of the movie industry, and now facing skit creation squarely. So, give and take, I’ve been in the industry for seven years. What were your early days challenges? My early days challenges in the movie industry will be producers and directors asking me for sex before giving me movie roles. It’s as bad as even an ordinary production manager asking for sex before linking me up with directors. And as for skit making, it will basically be financial constraints. Bringing people on set, welfare, location, camera and all of that can be financially draining. Lastly, it is about low engagement on social media platforms; but above all, God has been so great to me. I’m the apple of God’s eye. Due to the pressure, did you at some point consider giving in to the requests for sex?Giving in? No! I never did. I was raised well and giving in means, I probably will be chilling with the big boys and girls by now. How did your boyfriend react when you told him you’re going into entertainment full time? My boyfriend? I was in entertainment before I met him, so he knows what I do before asking me out, and he’s very supportive. He’s always cheeriing me up, respecting my privacy, work and our relationship. Liposuction seems to be the order of the day in the industry, do you have any plan to toe the line or you’ve done that already? God forbid. I can’t stand the pain, honestly. Before I could pierce my nose, I knew how long it took me. I thought deep of how much pain I would have to bear.  I’m supposed to have more ear piercings, but I just can’t stop thinking of the pain, not to mention going under the knife. Haaaa… I can’t o.  I’ll rather do several sessions of body sculpting. So, your endowments are natural? They are very natural. My mummy is busty, her sisters are busty and they have big bumbum, so I tapped from all angles. It is only my big tummy that I am ashamed of. What are the challenges you face in showbiz as a lady with the right curves? The only challenge I face is that when I go out with my friends, attention is always on me, and I feel uncomfortable. Maybe that’s why I don’t have many friends. But then I am enjoying the daily attention from men. What’s the most challenging role or skit you’ve done and why? When I met aunty Funke Akindele for the first time on set of Jenifa’s Diary and she asked me to run my lines, my voice was shaking. I was literally taken aback by myself. So, I was seriously nervous and I flopped. The next thing she said was ‘oh, she can’t play this role. This is not who I need. I think she’s too posh for this role’. That day, I wanted the ground to swallow me. But thank God for Jide Awobona and her husband that cheered me on. That was how I was able to play my role comfortably.  Since then there’s absolutely no role I can’t play, but I’ve my best parts that everyone knows. You studied Computer Science but started doing skits, what were your parents’ reactions? They wanted me to work in that line, but God had other plans for me. And they’re very supportive of my chosen career. Like extremely supportive, I must say. My parents are cheering me on. They are my biggest supporters. Do you see yourself marrying from the industry? No. Never, because I know what they do. I want a low key life. But honestly, I don’t care. I think it will give me more leverage and more understanding. What are those things you expect from your potential lover or husband? Husband? I want somebody that is really understanding, loves God more than me, and can take care of his family. I need somebody who would be my best friend, humble, truthful and trustworthy. Also, he should be someone who’s very good in bed and loves public display of affection So, even as a public figure, you enjoy public display of affection? Yes. I want him to spank my bumbum in public, kiss me, hold me tight. That’s the fun of it. My ex did all that, he spoilt me. So, why did you guys break up? He’s jealous and wanted us to relocate. I wasn’t ready for that then. That means you can’t marry a pastor? I can’t. I’m sorry because I will teach him bad things. Who are your role models in Nollywood? Funke Akindele, Rita Dominic. What makes you happy? God’s love and grace; shooting and having amazing people around me.