From Scholastica Onyeka, Makurdi Ahead of the Saturday 11th March 2023 Governorship and State Assembly elections, Alia/Ode Campaign Council in Benue state has alleged pacts, instructions and monetary inducement of cult groups and other gang leaders by the opposition to disrupt the elections. Director Communications Alialization; Alia/Ode campaign organization, Kula Tersoo, made this allegations in a statement he made available to newsmen on Tuesday in Makurdi. According to the statement, Mr Kula said “We are aware that some bad losers in the last Presidential and National Assembly elections have allied and are beating drums of war, holding series of nocturnal and clandestine meetings. “We have gathered how they have been holding meetings and addressing cult groups and other gang leaders, instructing and inducing them with monies to go out on Saturday 11th March 2023, the day of the Governorship & House of Assembly elections and ferment trouble.” He urged those fighting the election of the All Progressive Congress, APC, candidates in the last Presidential and National Assembly, to desist from their acts, saying they are fighting God. Kula who described Alialization mandate as divine said those who may wish to insist and attempt to execute the plans of their sponsors would have themselves to blame as they are walking the path of self destruction. He urged the youths to flee from those he described as “desperate politicians” who are recruiting to achieve their devilish aim. The Campaign Council Director of Communications said since his declaration, Rev. Fr. Hyacinth Alia has conducted himself responsibly and maturely, going about his politicking with utmost decorum, even in the face of countless unprovoked badmouthing and invectives consistently thrown up from crude concoctions. “He has consistently maintained that all candidates should come out just like he has been doing, sell their manifesto to the Benue electorate and wait for the people’s appraisal and decision at the polls. “We are calling on those who believe they have a future to resist being used. Alia has a wonderful plan for the youth. “But for those who may wish to insist and attempt to execute the plan of their sponsors, we can assure them that they will not be able to destroy anything, but destruction will surely visit them. Alialization Mandate is Divine. The living God is involved,” he said.