From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja, Chijioke Agwu, Abakaliki, Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa, Sola Ojo, Kaduna, Paul Osuyi, Asaba, John Adams, Minna, Ighomuaye Lucky, Benin and George Onyejiuwa, Owerri  The All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, has admitted that cash scarcity affected the party’s outing during the presidential election. He spoke during a meeting with the governorship candidates at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja ahead of the governorship and state Assembly elections.  The former governor of Nasarawa State lamented that the plans and preparations by the ruling party was not clinically concluded. He emphatically noted that there was problem with the disbursement of funds, noting that money released could not get to the people billed to execute certain responsibilities.   “The problems that confronted us require some additional helping hand to overcome. The actual plan and preparation for the election itself can’t be said to have been concluded fairly well. There are places we have problems as we talk about money not being in circulation as it should be, to enable the candidates to confront the elections properly. “There are problems with money being approved by some states and up till now the money has not reached them, but they have reason to believe that there is some kind of arrangements for them. “And then there are some kind of local problems, last minutes problems of maybe people who are supposed to be leaders of the parties are not playing along or some APC leaders campaigning for other parties within the state for the election. “These I thought are some of the problems I think need quick intervention. But we will hear this from the horse mouth of the people who are primarily bearing the brunt of the elections. “Hearing from them will give us a better approach we will have in collaboration with our governors to see how best to address these issues before the election. “We intend to make it a very short meeting to be able to go back to the trenches and face the problems at the moment,” he said. In attendance were Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, Delta State candidate, Hyacinth Alia, Benue State among many others. •Group, PDP task INEC on credible polls The Coalition for a Better and Brighter Nigeria (CBBN) has advised the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct free, fair and credible elections across the nation. Prophet Isa El-buba, its convener, gave the advice when he visited INEC office in Plateau, in Jos, yesterday, when he led members of his group to present a letter of complaint to the commission on the conduct of the February 25 elections.  He expressed displeasure over alleged inability of INEC to transmit election results electronically, using the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) during the polls. He advised the commission to make the process transparent in the forthcoming polls, adding that such move would present the commission as an unbiased umpire. “It is on a sad note that I write to register my disappointment and that of majority of Nigerians across the spectrum on the commission’s conduct of the February 25 Presidential and National Assembly elections. These issues revolve around serious logistical and technological shortcomings, non-compliance with the Electoral Act, your own guidelines and statements, lack of transparency, and manipulation of election results which have undermined public confidence in INEC and the overall outcome of the elections “The outcome of the last elections had dashed the hopes of many Nigerians because they considered the process went against the Electoral Act and even the promises made by the commission to to deliver free, fair and credible elections. So, we call on the commission under the leadership of Mahmoud Yakubu, to ensure the process is credible during the forthcoming Governorship and House of Assembly polls,” he advised. El-buba  called on Nigerians not to be deterred by the outcome of the presidential elections but come out to vote candidates of their choice during the polls. Dr. Oliver Agundu, Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), represented by Ms Chinyere Okoye, an official of the commission, promised to transmit the letter to the chairman of the commission. She commended the group for conducting themselves peacefully during the protest and urged them to remain calm at all times. The group walked from Old Aiport Junction to the Miango Junction area of Jos,  the location of INEC headquarters in Plateau. Similarly, the Peoples Democratic party (PDP) in Ebonyi State also called on INEC to ensure free, fair and credible elections during the governorship and House of Assembly elections in Ebonyi State. Director of Youth Mobilisation, PDP Campaign Council in the state, Mr. Igwe Kelechi, at a press conference in Abakaliki, yesterday, said the party was not satisfied with the outcome of the February 25 elections in the state. “We advise the politicians to play the by the rules. Respect the electoral laws in order to achieve free, fair and credible elections come March 11 governorship Elections. The youth will not tolerate any act of violence. You must remain neutral and apolitical instead of causing disorder. “We, therefore call on security agents to ensure proper security at the polling units across the 177 wards in the state in order to protect both voters and their votes.” •Diri woos electorate   Governor Douye Diri has appealed to the electorate in Bayelsa State to vote massively for candidates of the PDP in the House of Assembly election. The party won the presidential elections and cleared all the seven National Assembly seats. Ahead of the House of Assembly elections scheduled for Saturday and as part of preparations to ensure the party comes tops, the governor convened a three-day consultative meeting party’s candidates, caucus leaders, stakeholders and the leadership of the non-indigenes from the eight local government areas. While congratulating the state PDP for the overwhelming victory recorded by the party in the February 25 presidential and National Assembly elections, he expressed hope that the same feat would be repeated this Saturday. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, quoted the governor as calling on PDP members across the state to redouble their effort in order to emerge victorious in the state assembly election. He equally urged party members to close ranks and work as a family, stating that when they are united and put the interest of the party above personal consideration, achieving victory becomes easier.  • CAN, JNI to journalists: Avoid stories capable of triggering political crisis  The leaderships of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) have appealed to journalists in Kaduna State to avoid promoting stories capable of triggering violence. The two religious bodies and other partners appealed at a one-day interactive session organised by the Global Peace Foundation-Nigeria (GPFN) in collaboration with Big Minds Communications Consult (BMCC) and the Corespondents’ Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Kaduna State chapter. Apart from being the third largest state after Lagos and Kano, Kaduna is one of the Northern states that has recorded the highest number of political violence that has claimed several lives and destruction of properties, especially during the 2011 post-election unrest. Chairman of CAN in the state and Country Director, GPFN, Reverend Joseph Hayab in his keynote address on “Peaceful election in Kaduna State with gubernatorial candidates from religious and political perspectives” said media and journalists were key in having peaceful elections in the state. “To conduct credible, free, and fair elections that would usher in the kind of leaders that the Nigerian public desires, the role of the media is substantial and that leads me to appeal to journalists at this crucial moment, especially in Kaduna state, a state that has experienced devastation in the aftermath of elections in the past, to report in a manner that douses any rising tension than to add to the flames of an already a volatile situation with sensational reporting,” he said.  Secretary, JNI, Kaduna State Chapter, Ibrahim Kefena, urged journalists not to create unnecessary political tension because God already knows who will win no matter the circumstances that may play up. Engaging colleagues on the revised media code for election coverage, former director general (media) to former governor, Ahmed Maiyaki, recounted how about 800 people lost their lives while about 65,000 others were displaced due to the 2011 post-election crisis in Northern Nigeria with Kaduna topping the list. He urged the media to ensure equitable access to all contenders irrespective of whether they are contesting on a major or minor political party.  Earlier, Chairman, Correspondents’ Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Kaduna State Council, Abdulgafar Alabelewe said the programme was put together to refresh memories of the  journalists on the need to promote peace as we approach the 2023 governorship and state assembly elections. •We’ve no pact with APC, Omo-Agege  –Obidients The ‘Obidient Movement’ nationwide has dissociated itself from a purported pact with the governorship candidate of the APC in Delta State, Ovie Omo-Agege. The movement said it would never anything to do with APC, insisting that this Saturday’s election is another avenue to vent their anger by voting against the ruling party across the states. Some followers of movement in Delta State, had pledged to support Omo-Agege, saying that he possesses the character of their principal and presidential candidate of LP, Mr. Peter Obi. But addressing journalists in Asaba, Chairman of Special Duty Committee of Labour Party, Dr. Emeka Mandela, said it was unthinkable for true Obidient family members to seek friendly alliance with APC in any part of the country. He debunked the purported pact with Omo-Agege, saying in this era of politics, any group of people can gather in the name of the movement to hoodwink any politician.  “Let it be on record that the APC has plunged Nigeria into darkness, they have brought sorrow upon the land. And the youths of Nigeria are still mourning, we are sad.  “We are using this Saturday’s election as an expression of the demonstration we should have been on the streets by now.  “We decided to sheathe our swords of the demonstration you would have been seeing around the nation to take that demonstration to the polls on Saturday against APC. We are taking the demonstration to the polls round Nigeria, Delta State inclusive.  The Obidient family will be having demonstration against APC at the polls on Saturday, we are going to come out en-masse and give a protest vote against APC.”  •EDOSCO urges end to 9 member Assembly sittings in Edo Edo Civil Society Organizations (EDOSCO), yesterday, called on citizens of the state  to use their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) to correct the anomaly where nine members, instead of 24, have been presiding over legislative proceedings in the state House of Assembly in the past over three years. Interim chairman of the group, Austine Enabulele, who made the call in Benin decried the situation where for years ,over 15 constituencies have not been represented in the House of Assembly. He said the call was part of their observations at the just concluded presidential and National Assembly elections. He said people of the state needed a vibrant state legislative house to champion the interest of their various constituencies and not a rubber stamp set of lawmakers.  •Religion’ll not save you from defeat, Niger PDP candidate, Kantigi tells APC  The Niger State governorship candidate of the PDP, Isah Liman Kantigi, has described as myopic and baseless, the statewide campaign by the APC against his choice of a Christian as running mate, saying such religious campaign would not save the party from defeat. The PDP governorship candidate said his decision to pick a Christian running mate was based on equity, justice and fairness in a multi-religious state like Niger, pointing out that “politics is about what you have to offer the people. We should not bring religion into politics because religion is in the heart and should not be brought into politics.” Speaking in Minna during an interactive session with newsmen, Kantigi warned the people of the state not to leave the state in the hands of those who thinkless about the plight of the ordinary people but want to use religion to get to power. “Those using religion as a campaign tool cannot save the APC from defeat in the governorship election on Saturday because are more aware now than before and can not be deceived anymore,” the two time local government local chairman said. In his remark, former commissioner for Local Government, Community Development and Chieftaincy Affair, appealed to the people not to allow anybody deceive them with religious bias, stressing that “Niger State at this critical time needs someone with experience, track record of achievements with sense of maturity. We must stop religious bias that has not improve the standard of living of the people in anyway. It is what you have to offer the people that matters at this critical time and not religion, those who preach religion have little or nothing to offer in politics.” •S’Court affirms Akan Udofia as Akwa-Ibom APC candidate The Supreme Court has affirmed Akan Udofia as the duly nominated APC governorship candidate in Akwa Ibom State. A former senator, Ita Enang, had sought to nullify Udofia’s nomination as the governorship candidate of the party in the state. Delivering the judgement, a five-member panel of the Supreme Court led by Justice Kudirat Kekere-Ekun, held that Udofia was a bona fide member of the APC when it held the primary election. Kekere-Ekun held that a political party has the “prerogative” to grant anyone membership waivers. “I am in full agreement with the lower court that Udofia was a member of the APC when he contested for the primary, and that the issue of a waiver is an internal affair of a party which the court cannot inquire into. Enang had prayed the court to declare him as the authentic governorship flagbearer of the party on the ground that Udofia was not an APC member as at 27 May 2022 when the party conducted the governorship primary. The justice after affirming Mr Udofia’s candidacy further held that Enang’s case collapsed. “Having held that the 1st respondent duly participated in the primary election, the foundation of the appellant case collapsed.The appeal in my view was rightly dismissed by the lower court,” Kekere-Ekun said. •LP candidate accuse APC of recruiting thugs to rig re-run poll Candidate of the LP for the Mbaitoli/Ikeduru federal constituency of Imo State, Uche Ogbuagu, has raised the  alarm that APC is recruiting thugs to rig the  re-run of the polls. Ogbuagu who represents Ikeduru state constituency and  former majority leader of the House of Assembly said he has also petitioned the Inspector – General of Police Usman Baba Alkali, Chief of Army Staff, Lucky Irabor, Director- General of the Department of State Services, Assistant Inspector – General in charge of Zone 9 and even the National Security Adviser to intervene and forestall looming mayhem over the re- run   INEC  had declared the poll held on 25 February inconclusive  and rescheduled a re- run for March 11 in 58 polling units across the federal constituency, where elections did not hold as result of irregularities and the absence of electoral officials .  Addressing Journalists on Tuesday at his country Home in  Akabo, Ikeduru council area of Imo state Hon Ogbuagu alleged that Chief Charles Amadi ( Chavon ), a chieftain of the APC  whose son Engr Akarachi Amadi is a candidate in the election have recruited thugs with which to rig the supplementary polls this Saturday. In the petition which copies were made available to Journalists at the Press conference, Hon Ogbuagu said that he was confident of victory if the supplementary election is free, fair and credible, stating that he had already garnered over 17, 000 votes from the first ballot while the APC candidate trials him on the second position with 12,000. Said He :  “Evidences before me prove that, there were colossal attempts made by some callous people on the 25th of February, when elections were held for the President and National Assembly.