From Ighomuaye Lucky, Benin The Labour Party candidate for the Oredo West Constituency in the forthcoming Edo State House of Assembly election, Edosa Richard, yesterday, said those doubting the participation of the party’s candidates in the Saturday March 11 poll should go to the Independent National Electoral Commission’s portal to see the names of those fielded by the party for the election. He said this in Benin while reacting to the claims in some quarters that the Labour Party does not have candidates for the forthcoming state house of assembly election. Edosa said those peddling the rumours are only trying to convince the electorate to see their parties as the alternative parties to be voted for in the Saturday March 11 election in the state adding that such is a cheap propaganda. “It is unfortunate that other parties, instead of them to focus on issues based politics, they are relying on propagandas. “If you need to know whether Labour Party has candidates, go to INEC, the list is there. “We have 24 house of assembly candidates, contesting for the house of assembly in Edo State. “What these other parties are trying to do, is to spread lies that Labour Party is no longer there so that they can become alternative parties but it is rather unfortunate. “I am here, I am campaigning. We have our list on INEC, they should go to the INEC portal, Labour Party candidates names are still there. “So, I will advise that they concentrate on issues based politics and focus on what they can do for the people of Edo State rather than engaging in cheap rumours and lies to gain popularity”, Edosa said. The state house of assembly hopeful said the party wants to consolidate on its wins in the just concluded presidential and national assembly elections and it will be proper for the party to have its members in the various state of house of assemblies and governors in the various states. “It is obvious that Peter Obi and Labour Party is a movement that has come to stay. Obi will get his mandate and he is fighting for it. “He has told all Nigerians that he won the election and he will prove it to Nigerians that he actually won the election. “Today, despite the presidential election and the national assembly elections was last week Saturday, we can boast of  Representatives members, we can boast of senators. “Now, we won Lagos, Edo, Delta, Nasarawa, Plateau state, 12 states. What we need is to put labour party house of assemblies, labour party governors and you will see that labour party is a party to contend with. “Despite the presidential election last Saturday, you can see the crowd, the massive support that I get, that came here with me. “On the road today in our rally, you need to come and see the way the people of Edo were crowding the streets and were shouting Obidient. “It it is not going to die because they are trying to shortchange the Obidients of their mandate. It is not going to die. Caption: Edosa