•Says new dawn has come for Nigeria From John Adams Minna Former military president, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida has congratulated the president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu on his election. In a statement by his media office in Minna,  he commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for midwifing an election, which he said would lead to a new Nigeria. He also commended Nigerians for going out en masse to exercise their voting rights and electing someone like Tinubu. “It’s a thing of joy that this is happening in my lifetime. I can confidently say that Tinubu is a good man for the job. I have no doubt that Tinubu would perform. For some of us who have been there before, I know that there is still more work to be done, and I believe that Tinubu has what it takes to take Nigeria to the next level. We have much potential as a nation. What we need is a good direction so that we can continue to be seen as the giant of Africa. Indeed, our best is yet to come but we can get to where we ought to be with determination and commitment.” Babangida added that Tinubu is coming from the background of a performer, who loves his people with all his hearts and who knows how to put a round peg in a round hole. While urging Nigerians to join hands with him in the business of repairing the nation, he also appealed to other candidates to see the emergence of the former Lagos governor as the will of God, saying the work of nation building requires that all hands must be on deck. “This is a bright moment for Nigeria, we have to take our destiny in our hands and make things work for us as a nation. We cannot continue to do things the same way, and I believe that God will make things work for this country again,” he said, adding that a new dawn has come for Nigeria. •Fayemi proposes government of national unity Dr. Kayode Fayemi, former governor of Ekiti State and immediate past chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF) has asked Tinubu to focus on building a government of national unity. “I would also like to urge the victorious candidate and our party to seriously consider a government of national unity given the excellent performance of the opposition political parties. In this historic election cycle, there is no victor and no vanquished. This is not a time for triumphalism but a time to celebrate the resilience of ordinary Nigerians with sobriety,”  he said in a statement issued on his behalf by Ahmad Sajoh, head of the Fayemi Media Office in Abuja. He commended the political resilience, brilliance, and shrewdness of Tinubu, stating that over the years, the new President-Elect had mentored a vast number of Nigeria’s political leadership and worked hard to develop and sustain progressive ideology in Nigeria. “Tinubu was the leader of opposition politics when it was not fashionable to be in the opposition in Nigeria, but through hard work, foresight, and compromise, he, working with other leaders, formed the APC, which has now won three consecutive presidential elections. “ •Marwa: Victory well deserved Former military administrator of Lagos State and Chief Executive Officer of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Brig. Gen. Mohamed Marwa (retd) said Tinubu’s victory as well-deserved, and one built on years of focus, hard work, doggedness and political sagacity of a democrat whose credential has been evident since the heyday of NADECO.  “We look forward to the implementation of your visions for a new Nigeria as outlined in your manifesto during the campaign,” he said. •Emenike: New era of peace, prosperity Governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia, Chief Ikechi Emenike, has said that with Tinubu’s emergence, Nigeria is primed for a new era of peace and prosperity. He described the triumph of the APC presidential flagbearer as well deserved and in line with the direction of the progressive wind blowing across the nation since 2015 when APC came to power. He said former Lagos governor and president-elect is a political colossus, adding that he has paid his dues in the nation’s politics and in the struggle for democratic governance. “Asiwaju has once again proved that hard work, human capital development and building bridges across Nigeria’s diverse ethno-religious landscape are sine qua non for a successful political career,” he said. According to Emenike, the enormity and spread of votes garnered by Tinubu across the length and breath of the nation is a testimony of the acceptability of the president-elect. “Asiwaju’s victory has brought about renewed hope of Nigerians in their fatherland for a better future, national rebirth, economic growth and accelerated development.” The Abia APC governorship hopeful, therefore, urged Nigerians to brace up for a new era of prosperity, peace and progress in the land, adding that Asiwaju would keep faith with the promises he made to Nigerians. •Edo APC Congratulates  Edo State chapter of the APC, yesterday, in a congratulatory message by the Publicity Secretary, Peter Uwadiae, expressed joy Tinubu won that against all odds. It noted that the victory underlines the intimidating and outstanding credentials of the president – elect which speaks volumes about his capacity and capability, to efficiently steer ashore the ship of the Nigeria nation, from trouble waters. “In spite of the complexities which pose a daunting task ahead, we trust in your antecedents as a certified achiever to give a ‘Renewed Hope’ of a great edifice that could be called a nation; to Nigerians.”