Member of National Caucus and pioneer member of All Progressives Congress (APC), Sam Nkire, has appealed to Nigerians, including members of his party to be patient and remain calm until the final announcement of the presidential election results.  Nkire, who was once the national chairman of Progressive People’s Alliance, which won governorship elections in Imo and Abia states in 2007, said: “All Nigeria needs now is peace.” In a statement in Abuja, yesterday, he said the trend in the outcome of the election so far announced, indicates the youths are desperately yearning for inclusivity in the running of the affairs of the country and therefore, need to be involved more than ever before.  Nkire advised that no patriot should go into an election hoping to win at all costs, adding that, “an electoral contest must not be a do-or-die affair for anyone who has the peace and unity of his or her country at heart.” He also advised the Independent National Elections Commission (INEC) to have the humility to inform and communicate both the political parties and the public whenever it faces hitches or difficulties in the cause of its national assignments and operations.  Nkire urged candidates and leaders of political parties to restrain their members and supporters from taking the laws into their hands while the nation waits for the final announcement of the presidential and the other National Assembly election results.  The Abia State-born politician maintained that recent presidential election which he adjudged to be an improvement on the last one, would surely produce a president that a majority of Nigerians want and voted for.  Nkire said it would be foolhardy for the public to take to the streets to protest and riot over the delay in the announcing process by INEC or over unsuccessful attempt by their preferred candidates to win.  He assured Nigerians APC would continue to maintain the peace, win or lose, while calling specifically on the three other major contenders to follow suit, whether they win or lose too.  The APC stalwart reminded the people that the country was too important and strategic to Africa and the world for it to descend into post-election violence and crisis, which according to him, “is capable of significantly impacting on the socio-economic security of the sub-region and the whole world.”