The Commandant General (CG) Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Dr Ahmed Audi, has promised to give automatic jobs to the families of seven officers killed by bandits in Kaduna State. Audi said this when presenting bank cheques by Mining Development Company Limited to the next of kin of late officers ambushed and killed by terrorists in Birnin Gwari, yesterday, in Kaduna. Represented by the Assistant Commandant General (ACG), Zone B, Muhammad Haruna, the CG, however, did not disclose the amount given to them. Audi, while sympathising with the families of late officers, who were killed in an ambush in Kuriga village in Chikun Local Government Area on January 9 while on official duty, appreciated the efforts of the mining company for identifying with the corps since the killing of the officers. “Since the killing of the seven officers, the mining company has been identifying with us, they have not abandoned us, and it shows that you have the welfare of our officers at heart,’’ he said. He urged the family to utilise the token received for the benefit of the children of late officers. The CG said the corps was also working hard to ensure early payment of its benefits to next of kin. Earlier, the Managing Director of the mining company, Dr Mohammed Usaini, said the company found it necessary to identify with and present a token to the families of the late officers killed. Also, the Commandant, NSCDC Kaduna Command, Idris Adah, said: “CG was not happy about the sudden killing of the officers, but since death is inevitable, there was nothing anybody can do about it. “Death is a necessary journey; it will come when it has to come, that we will only pray to God for the repose of the lost souls,’’ he said. The commandant thanked the mining company for remembering the family of the late officers at a time they are so much in need. He said although no amount of money could replace the deceased, the beneficiaries should put the money in proper use for the benefit of the children left behind. Responding on behalf of the families of the seven officers, Alhaji Baba Ladan, thanked the commandant general and state commandant for being with them during their mourning period.