Real philanthropists are buoyed by their deep or inner satisfaction of impacting on the lives of their beneficiaries. That’s the category energy tycoon Femi Otedola belongs. For the Chairman, Geregu Power Plc, philanthropy is a lifestyle. Otedola sees generosity as an art through which he creates an unconditional and abundance of love and happiness for others. He also has passion for education and unwavering dedication to the growth and progress of his community. Because of his deep involvement in educational causes at all levels, Otedola has made significant strides in the Nigerian education sector through the Sir Michael Otedola Scholarship Awards Foundation. Over the years, he has awarded multi-million naira scholarships to indigent students in Lagos State, especially those from his Epe homestead. His unwavering commitment to education at all levels has extended far beyond his notable 2007 donations of N100 million to the Otedola College of Primary Education in Noforija, Epe, and N80 million to the Faculty of Agriculture at the University of Port Harcourt. About five years ago, Otedola expanded his milk of kindness when he pledged a contribution of N1 billion towards funding scholarships for indigent students in the state and sources said he has quietly surpassed that figure without making any fuss of his goodness. And once again, the billionaire magnate recently demonstrated his commitment to community development by donating a cutting-edge engineering building worth N2 billion to Augustine University, a Lagos-based private Catholic university. The grand unveiling and presentation of the building on February 22 come as the culmination of a pledge made almost three years ago, with Otedola honouring the memory of his late father, Michael Otedola, a celebrated politician who once held the post of governor of Lagos State. The inauguration of the new engineering building marks the first step toward a larger expansion plan, as plans for the second to fourth phase of the project are already in motion. With this generous donation, Otedola —appointed as the distinguished Chancellor of the University in September 2022— has not only provided a cutting-edge facility for students to learn and innovate but has also set a remarkable example for other members of the society to follow.