All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Abia State, Ikechi Emenike, has urged the people to trust him with their mandate. In a message he sent to the voters, he said time has come for Abia people to elect a trustworthy person to preside over the affairs of the state, saying his word is his bond. “If I reach agreement with you, that agreement is binding on me. I have never reneged on agreement.”  He reminded people that PDP, which has been in power for over two decades in the state has used lies and deceit to underdeveloped Abia. “You have tried the same tendency for 24 years. It’s time to try another,” he said, adding that his candidacy offers Abia a new hope. According to him, having failed woefully to keep their promises to Abians, the PDP has no moral right to make any promise this time around and expect to be believed. “This is the time to shake off those holding Abia down. If you continue to vote for those holding you down, then you are the one holding yourself down.”  Emenike also warned Abia against voting for those known to have collaborated with bad leaders to loot Abia resources but have now turned around to ask for mandate to continue the rot. Emenike, an economist with vast local and international experience, assured Abia people his manifesto is a social contract he has entered with them and which he would keep to the letter. He noted that the 23 deliverables outlined in his manifesto would be implemented in the shortest period of time after his inauguration to assure the people that he meant business in his promise to pull Abia into the path of accelerated development.  Emenike specially appealed to youths of Abia to look well before they cast their votes, noting that he has big plans that would guarantee a secured future of meaningful job opportunities and talent development. The APC governorship flag bearer stated that over 70 per cent of the action plan in his manifesto were geared towards uplifting Abia youths and making life worth living for them. He assured the people that God has already ordained there would be a change in Abia this year, adding that the change would be realised through his rescue and develop Abia (RADA) movement. “Let us join hands to make a new Abia of our dreams possible. This election year, 2023, is our big chance,” he said.