From Molly Kilete, Abuja  The Police Force Headquarters in Abuja has warned against the use of dogs at polling units in Saturday’s governorship and state house of assembly elections. The police said the warning became necessary following plans by some voters to go to the polling units with their dogs, to protect their votes and prevent those planning to snatch ballot boxes from doing so during the elections. Force Public Relations Officer, Olumiyiwa Adejobi, who gave the warning, described the act as unacceptable and an electoral infraction as it would cause harassment and intimidation.  It, therefore, warned those who intended to display their pets, dogs specifically, for whatever purpose, at the polling units, to desist as such constitutes a violation of the electoral Act, 2022, as amended, and other extant laws. Adejobi in a statement issued in Abuja said: “The Nigeria Police Force has deemed it necessary to educate and caution Nigerians on the use of pets, especially dogs, at the polling units on election day, as such act runs contrary to the provisions of the Electoral Act, 2022, as amended. “The provision of Section 126 (1) of the Electoral Act. 2022 explains clearly those actions exhibited by electorates that constitute electoral breaches and are punishable under the law, and paragraph (f) mentions possession of weapons calculated to intimidate voters and electoral officers. Dogs could be classed as offensive weapons as their owners/handlers can use them to intimidate, harass and cause assault and bodily harm to others.  “The Dogs Act, CAP 55 Laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1958 as domesticated in various states, and other Criminal Laws in Nigeria are trite. “The conceived ideas and plans by certain individuals, electorates, and groups of people to go to the polls accompanied by pets are unacceptable, stand discouraged, and remain an act of electoral infraction as it will cause harassment and intimidation.  “The Nigeria Police Force, therefore, warns those who intend to display their pets, dogs specifically, for whatever purpose, at the polling units, to desist, as such constitutes a violation of the electoral Act 2022, as amended, and other extant laws.