By Chinwendu Obienyi  Following the emergence of Bola Tinubu as President-elect, chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Bode George, has expressed disappointment with the conduct of the elections, stating that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) failed Nigerians at the last minute. Bode-George, who spoke during a programme monitored by Daily Sun, yesterday, accused the chairman, INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, of not living up to his promises of ensuring a free and fair election. Describing the incoming government of Bola Ahmed Tinubu as darkness, he berated those congratulating the former Lagos State governor, Bode-George, described last Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly election as shambolic. “The chairman of INEC promised the whole world that we are going to have a new beginning and Mr President himself signed the new electoral bill. They completely encouraged Nigerians that this time around that we will be doing like the civilised world that from the polling units, the results would be transmitted to their server. “I was miffed, shocked that at that very hour, on that D-Day, he had the temerity to tell [us] there were hitches in the technology. It’s absolutely shambolic, disgraceful and not accepted. For God’s sake, when will Nigerians have the will to tell the truth? When will Nigeria come out of these nonsensical things?”  He added: “This is unacceptable for God’s sake. People are talking, hailing and congratulating, congratulating what? That was the way we have done elections in the past and it has not helped this country. Now they are throwing in the same bad eggs to manage the resources of the country.” The elder statesman also revealed that he would retire from active politics after the governorship election on March 11, 2023. “I have decided to retire from partisan politics after the governorship election, and I can decide to go and live anywhere. I want a peaceful life for myself. “I know this fellow (Tinubu) and he is not good for Nigerians. If he had gone through the process, I would have congratulated him. You cannot go through darkness to get to light.  I can go and live anywhere, it can be Ghana, Togo or still remain in Nigeria,” he said.