With barely three days to the Abia state governorship election, aggrieved members of the All Progress Congress, Umuahia North Chapter, have dumped its governorship candidate in support of the governorship candidate of the Action Peoples Party (APP), Chief Mascot Uzor Kalu (KSJI). At a meeting in the state’s capital city today for the formal adoption of the APP’s gubernatorial candidate, major stakeholders of the Umuahia North APC expressed their dissatisfaction at the divisive tendencies of their party’s candidate and consequently declared unalloyed support for Chief Kalu of the APP, whom they described as their best alternative with commendable qualities to govern the state. Speaking at the meeting on behalf of the APC members, a former L.G. Chairman of the party in Umuahia North, Hon. Israel Nwachukwu, said the party’s crisis has left them sidelined and that they cannot remain like that in the next four years; hence, their support for the APP. The State Youth Leader of APC, Comr. Chibueze Apougo, on his part, extolled the qualities of Chief Kalu, adding that his youthfulness and commendable qualities influenced their decision to support him. He said, “I have read and heard much about you. Your youthfulness and commendable qualities made us arrive after supporting you.” Earlier, the state Chairman of the APP, Elder (Hon.) Princewill Ukaegbu, who was part of the meeting, urged the APC members to support the APP governorship candidate, who is of Abia North extraction, where the governorship position should return, stressing that the people of the zone had supported an Umuahia son to be governor. In his words, “If we do not support Mascot Uzor Kalu, we are just being ungrateful because the people of Abia North supported us for the emergence of our brother as Governor.” Reminding them that the Abia state governorship position in 2023 is what should return to Abia North and, by extension, Old Bende, Elder Ukaegbu asked, “Should we remain silent and allow what belongs to us to sleep away?” Speaking also, the DG of the Mascot Uzor Kalu Campaign Council, Elder Mark Ugorji, said the candidacy of his principal is a subject of equity, which he urged the APC members to help realize by voting for the APP. A delighted Chief Kalu, who could not hide his happiness while welcoming the support of the opposition party members, said, “I am happy that amongst all the governorship candidates, you found me worthy of your support.” Relying on how he had served as Chief of Staff without discriminating against anybody, the APP governorship candidate went on to assure them that he will run an all-inclusive government of unity, embracing all the parties that have joined his party in the fight to make Abia State great again.