From Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja  Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP), Senator Iyorchia Ayu;  Delta State governor and vice presidential candidate, Ifeanyi Okowa are to lead a protest by the party’s faithful and supporters in Abuja, today, over the outcome of the February 25 presidential poll. The protest comes agains the backdrop of alleged irregularity by the Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC) in declaring the candidate of the All Progressives Congress ( APC), Bola Tinubu, as winner of the presidential contest. The electoral body in its final results said Tinubu scored  8,794,726 votes, while PDP candidate, Atiku Abubakar polled  6,984,520 votes, with the presidential candidate of the Labour Party,  Peter Obi garnering  6,101,533 votes in the keenly contested poll. However, the PDP has rejected the election results stating that INEC allegedly flouted the Electoral Act 2022 by not uploading results directly from the polling units to its server. The party has also gone to court to challenge the election results. In a notice by Ibrahim Bashir, director of admin, Atiku campaign council, the party informed its members that the protest would take off from the Legacy House in the Maitama area by 10 am. It added that the uniform for the protest is black. “I am directed to respectfully invite Your Excellencies; National Chairman, Dr Iyrochia Ayu; vice presidential candidate and Governor of Delta State, Dr. Ifeanyichukwu Okowa, Governors of Akwa Ibom and Chairman of PCC, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, Sokoto State and DG of PCC,Aminu Tambuwal, and governors of Bayelsa, Edo, Adamawa, Bauchi, Taraba and Osun States; former senate presidents, David Mark and Bukola Saraki, BOT members, NEC members, PDP senators and House of Representatives members, NWC members of the party, DDGs, directors, deputies and assistant directors of NCMC; members of the PCC; leadership of People Living With Disabilities and all other stakeholders to a protest match to INEC Office,” the notice read.