From Abel Leonard, Lafia The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Nasarawa State said on Wednesday that the defeat of the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Abdullahi Adamu, and Senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura representing Nasarawa South will strengthen state politics. Reacting to the outcome of the presidential and National Assembly elections result in Nasarawa State, the Public Relations Officer of the party Ibrahim Amza said the failure of the lives of senator Abdullahi Adamu, senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura would not only strengthen the democratic institution in Nasarawa but open more political space. “It is the best thing that has in recent times happened to Nasarawa and its people. Residents must take advantage of the APC leadership insensitive to organize and coordinate the state for progress” Ibrahim, who expressed happiness with the outcome of last Saturday’s elections, noted that there is nothing a united people cannot achieve, and urged Nasarawa residents to remain resolute in the March 11 election. According to the PDP stalwart, individualistic tendencies which Cropped into the ruling APC were largely responsible for the failure of the lives of Senator Abdullahi Adamu and Senator Tanko Al-Makura. It is disturbing that the duo could not deliver their polling units not because they were not capable but because of lack of coordination, teamwork and exhibition of rulership and not leadership” “It’s simply shown that no one is indispensable and so, leaders must be careful with what they do or say as well as being conscious of the day of fury of the people. you must not take them for granted”, “The way and manner with which they went about their party primaries showed that they will come to this disastrous end and that time has proved them right” On the forthcoming governorship election in the state, the opposition party spokesman, expressing confidence that all things being equal, the party will emerge victorious, however, added that they are not taking things for granted Ibrahim Hamza said fear has gripped the ruling APC since losing all Senate seats to the opposition in the presidential and National Assembly elections, retaining only three of their House of Representatives seats. He urged the people of Nasarawa to disregard those fanning the embers of religious sentiments in the forthcoming election, noting that economic hardship does not discriminate between Muslims or Christians, stressing that the administration of Governor Emmanuel David Umbugadu will not discriminate on the basis of tribe or faith. “Umbugadu is a fine gentleman who hates all forms of discrimination and would not practice it during his tenure when elected and called on the people, especially the voting population to come out in their number and vote for the PDP from the State Assembly to the governorship slated for March 11, 2023. He called on those that voted for the Labour Party, NNPP, SDP and others to join hands and vote out the APC Government in the State The former PRO appealed to the youths across the 13 local governments in the state to eschew violence during and after the election, saying it is God that gives power to whosoever He so wishes. He then thanked the electorates in Nasarawa State for the continuous support PDP has enjoyed urging them to sustain the tempo in the forthcoming March election in the State. Former governor and serving senator Tanko Al-Makura lost his re-election bid to Muhammed Ogoshi Onawo of the PDP in the Nasarawa South senatorial district election conducted last Saturday.