Urges them to support him in rescuing Gombe From Abdulrazaq Mungadi, Gombe The gubernatorial candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) in Gombe state Khamisu Ahmad Mailantarki has congratulated senator Muhammad Danjuma Goje of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as well as Dr Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for emerging victorious in the just concluded election for national assembly members. Speaking during a courtesy visit to Goje at his residence in the Gombe metropolis, Mailantarki celebrated Goje for his fourth consecutive victory in the Gombe Central Senatorial race. According to him, Goje’s winning streak which has been on for a long I’ll is worth celebrating. This victory is proof that you are representing the interest of not just your constituency, but the entire people of Gombe state and country at large, and it shows that you are in the good book of your people,” Mailantarki said. The gubernatorial candidate was also at the residence of the former governor of Gombe State, Dr Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, who was declared the winner of the Gombe North Senatorial seat. According to Mailantarki, Dankwambo is a role model and a gentleman politician that many are learning from, within, and outside the state. He revealed that the people of the Gombe North Senatorial District did well to elect Dankwambo because his representation would mean a lot for the Gombe state and nation. Mailantarki also congratulated the member representing Gombe/Kwami/Funakaye Federal Constituency at the house of representatives, Yaya Bauchi Tongo who was returned elected. He said, “Gombe/Kwami/Funakaye is my zone and I believe you will give our people the needed representation. However, he consoled Alhaji Abubakar Yarima Abdullahi of the APC who lost in the race for the Gombe/Kwami/Funakaye Federal Constituency seat, and other contestants who lost in the elections. He wished them success and charged them to take solace in God. assured them of better days ahead. While congratulating the member-elect for Yamaltu Deba Federal Constituency Inuwa Garba, Mailantarki called on the elected senators and members as well as other politicians and stakeholders irrespective of political parties and affiliation in the state to support his movement in rescuing Gombe According to him, the success and development of the Gombe state are beyond any party or political affiliation. He said, “we must come together, work together and fight for the development of our state and our people, we should not prioritize political party or movement over our state, we should support a movement that is sure and committed to changing Gombe state and living standard our people, especially the youth, women, and others,” Mailantarki stated.