From Molly Kilete, Abuja  The Army Headquarters in Abuja said it has set up a Board of Inquiry (BOI) to unravel the circumstances surrounding the killing of an officer and two soldiers by a fellow soldier at Forward Operations Base (FOB) Rabbah, in Sokoto State. It expressed the hope that the outcome  of the BOI would help forestall such ugly and bizarre occurrences in the future.  Meanwhile, the Nigerian Army has commiserated with the officers and soldiers of the battalion and their families over the sad incident. Director, Army Public Relations, Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu, who made the disclosure, said already the General Officer Commanding (GOC) 8 Division Nigerian Army, who also doubles as the Commander, Joint Task Force Northwest, Operation Hadarin Daji, Major General Godwin Mutkut, and other senior officers have visited the location, to commiserate with the troops and urged them to be their brother’s keepers and report any anomaly observed amongst their colleagues, in order to forestall such incidents. He also encouraged them to remain calm and committed in the discharge of their duties.   Nwachukwu, in a statement issued last night, over the incident, said: “The Nigerian Army has instituted investigations into the unfortunate incident of a soldier who killed his colleagues and himself at Forward Operations Base (FOB) Rabbah, Sokoto State. The sad and rare incident occurred in the evening of Sunday, March 5, 2023, at the FOB, where troops were deployed for internal security operations. “The circumstances leading to the incident could not be immediately ascertained, as the soldier who killed his colleagues also shot himself immediately, terminating his own life. “The General Officer Commanding (GOC) 8 Division Nigerian Army, who also doubles as the Commander Joint Task Force Northwest, Operation Hadarin Daji, Major General Godwin Mutkut, and other senior officers have visited the location, where he commiserate with troops for loosing their colleagues in such an unfortunate situation. He urged them to be their brother’s keepers and report any anomaly observed amongst their colleagues in order to forestall such  incidents. He also encouraged them to remain calm and committed in the discharge of their duties.  “The authorities of the Nigerian Army are deeply concerned about this unusual and ugly development and have, therefore, instituted a Board of Inquiry (BOI), to unravel the circumstances surrounding the incident. It is envisaged that the findings of the BOI will help forestall such ugly and bizarre occurrences in the future.”