From Molly Kilete, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari, Friday commissioned 700 Ashok Leyland troops carrying vehicles to boost the operations of the Nigerian Armed Forces, with a promise to end insecurity before the expiration of his administration.He reiterated his administration’s resolve and commitment to winning the war against insurgency and other violent crimes forms of insecurity he would stop at nothing to ensure citizens have a new Nigeria free from insecurity before leaving office.The president commended the armed forces for protecting and defending the nation’s territorial integrity.Commissioning the vehicles virtually at a ceremony held in Abuja, thepresident while noting that before his emergence, Boko Haram and other criminal groups had taken over some parts of the country, said his administration was able to equip the military to curtail the menace.The president who spoke virtually, said, “As a country,  we are proud since the first seven years,  we have been able to revitalise our armed forces for the protection of the Nigeria’s territorial integrity that was once violated by Boko Haram insurgency and other forms of criminality in the country. He said “Some of you may recall that in my inaugural speech as the president, I promised to put an end to Boko Haram which hitherto constitutes threat to Nigeria’s territorial integrity. To fulfill this promise,  efforts on professionalism, capacity building in the armed forces, and the acquisition of brand new platforms and other supporting equipment were intensified to enable the military to discharge their duties respectively. “Buhari, while expressing the hope that the vehicles would help improve the operational activities of the troops, said, ” I have no doubt that the deployment of these vehicles,  will increase the efficient capacity of the armed forces of Nigeria. Therefore Charge you to consolidate on the gains you have made toward sustaining the peace and stability of the country.  “Speaking further, the president who commended the military’s role in the just concluded elections as well as restoring peace in some troubled parts of the country, Buhari promised that he would improve the welfare of military personnel in the country, adding that his administration was committed to curbing insecurity in the country.“I commend the armed forces for their support and role played during the presidential and national assembly elections.  I want to assure you all, that your labour will not be in vain. My regime would continue to support you in every aspect including improving your welfare.  Let me also assure Nigerians, the FG remain steadfast and committed to winning the war against insurgency and other forms of criminalities. We will not relent until we have a new Nigeria that is free from the terrorism menace. Earlier in his address, the Minister of Defence Major General,Bashir Magashi (retd), while noting that the project was initiated by the Office of the National Security Adviser in 2014, but that the delivery was delayed due to administrative errors, said the vehicles would help improve the operational activities of the armed forces.He said,” At this juncture, permit me to state that the complexity of crimes in various spheres of operation requires all actors both public and private to synergize efforts to safeguard the Nation from every form of anti-establishment activities. It is therefore most pleasant to take delivery of these troops-carrying vehicles, especially at this period to facilitate the operational activities of the Armed Forces.”