From Joseph Obukata, Warri The group, Young Professionals for Obi-Datti Movement in Delta state, yesterday, pledged their unalloyed support for the the state’s Young Progressive Party (YPP) governorship candidate, Comrade Sunny Ofehe, promising to canvass for his victory in the next week Saturday’s governorship election in the state. Leader of the group, Dr. Chris Idibia in company of other members including Mr. Fidelis Igbago, made the pledge during a consultative meeting held at Wellington hotel in Effurun, Uvwie council area. He said that they decided to pick Ofehe because he was the only one who marched what the Obi-Datti movement represent among others in the race, adding that it was time to give power to ‘our best eleven’. Idibia said that when they started the ‘Obidient movement’ many people underrated them and thought they would never go far but were now shocked how the wave of the movement swept across every part of the state. He said that Ofehe is the one who have the political clout in terms of what the ‘Obidient movement’ represent to march the money bags in both PDP and APC, expressing optimism that “we will shock them again in the next week Saturday’s governorship election”. “Obidient movement was not about Labour Party, it was about the pains of the ordinary Nigerians. We came together from different political parties to start the movement in our respective states because we saw genuineness in the Obi-Datti ticket, we saw Obi as someone God for primed for the job and that’s what we have seen in you.  “You have shown capacity and proven that you know what it takes to fix the many problems of this state. We’re tired of both PDP and APC misrule and maladministration, we need someone like you who will look outside the box and help bring our state to the path of glory, he added. This came as a faction of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) in Delta state, as well as a coalition of civil society organizations, have merged with the Young Progressive Party (YPP) in the state, adopting Ofehe as their choice for the March 11 governorship elections. The adoption of Ofehe was stemmed from series of merger talk between the YPP governorship candidate, coalition of various groups under the and NNPP factional executive in Isoko North and South Local Government Area. NNPP had been in disarray after the governorship candidate of the party, Engr. Goodnews Agbi arrested some of the party executives in the two council area including one Edward Ofomona, Alfred Odede, Anthony Oshilim, Ojiroro Moses and some executive members of Oyede ward 12 for allegedly orchestrating his suspension. Some aggrieved officials of the NNPP had allegedly accused the governorship candidate in the forthcoming 2023 general elections, Agbi of high-handedness and anti-party activities as well as ‘indiscriminate’ arrest of innocent party officials and members over his suspension. It was gathered that the aggrieved officials led by Mr. Egba Omu unanimously threw their weight behind the candidacy of Ofehe, saying that having read his manifesto and watched him go about his campaigns they have decided to picked him as their preferred choice for March 11 governorship election. Omu said that they would mobilize hundreds of NNPP members across the council area to ensure they deliver Ofehe during the poll, saying that the ‘Obidients’ factor have open up everyone eyes to the realization that election should not be base on ethnic background, or party affiliation but for the best man who has people-driven policies for the state. Leader of Civil Society Organization of Nigeria, Mr. Blessings Ogagayere, said that they were already canvassing round the nooks and crannies of the state to deliver Ofehe in the March 11 governorship election. Ogagayere expressed delight that Ofehe has become the third force in the race saying that many voters including members of the coalition of the civil society organizations were not willing to come out for the March 11 governorship election but with Ofehe being the third force in the race, they would mobilize eligible voters to the polling units to vote and monitor their votes till the end. Addressing the groups at separate times, Ofehe thanked them for finding him worthy of their support and promised not to betray the confidence they have on him. He said that his administration, when elected would be so interesting with developmental programmes and projects that Deltans would kneel down everyday to thank God for bringing him to run the affairs of the state.