Presidential candidate of Labour Party, Peter Obi, yesterday, visited Jennifer Efedi, the lady that was brutalised by suspected thugs while waiting to vote at Nuru/Oniwo Ward, Polling Unit 065, in Surulere, Lagos during the presidential and National Assembly elections on Saturday, February 25. The former Anambra governor, who polled over 12 million votes according to Independent National Electoral Commission result, announced the visit in a terse statement he personally signed, yesterday. “Today, I visited Mrs Jennifer Efidi. She was attacked on February 25 in an attempt to stop her from voting. She stood her ground. Jennifer is one of the great icons of Nigeria’s democracy. She is my point of contact with every Nigerian who suffered similar fate in their bid to exercise their voting rights, and contribute to a new Nigeria. Like many Nigerians, I acknowledge her bravery and resoluteness. Jennifer is a true manifestation of profile in courage for a new Nigeria,” Obi said in the statement.  Narrating her ordeal, Efidi said: “I went out with my daughter to cast my vote at Dipo Olubi Street in Surulere, like every other Nigerian. When I got there, I got verified and joined the queue waiting to vote. I later went to sit down because the line wasn’t moving due to some disorderly people smuggling themselves into it.” “After sitting for some time, some boys appeared, and they looked scary. It was obvious they didn’t come to vote. They were not close to us at the time, but a bit away from where the queue was. The boys were discussing, and I could see that some people who knew them went to join them. “Meanwhile, the voting process was still ongoing. After about 45 minutes, I felt a huge impact on my face and heard the sound of a gunshot.”  When she held her face, she noticed that blood was dripping down her hand as she managed to stand up and cry for help. She was then taken to a nearby hospital, where the cuts on her face were stitched. Soaked in her blood, she returned to the polling unit to cast her ballot.