From Paul Osuyi, Asaba A suspected member of a kidnapping gang in the Ozoro area of Delta State, one Oghene Fejiro, has been killed during a shoot-out with police operatives. The 27-year-old suspect sustained gun shot injuries during the gun duel and later gave up the ghost at the hospital. Public Relations Officer of the state police command, Bright Edafe, who confirmed the development in Asaba, yesterday, disclosed the kidnapped victim was rescued unhurt. Edafe stated the police received a distressed call that the victim was kidnapped at Effurun in his own Toyota Corolla car, and that the kidnappers were heading towards Ozoro town.  He said operatives swiftly mobilised and “created a partial hold up on the road and were conducting intensive stop-and-search when they sighted the said Toyota Corolla car.  “In a bid to stop the vehicle, the driver made a U-turn in an attempt to escape, but the team gave them a hot chase, demobilised the vehicle, which precipitated the suspects to abandon the victim and fled into the bush while firing at the police.  “In the ensuing gun duel, one of the suspects later identified as Oghene Fejiro ‘m’ 27 yaers of Oleh was arrested with gunshot injuries. One cut-to-size double barrel gun, two live cartridges were recovered, and the kidnap victim who is from Effurun was rescued unhurt and his Toyota car recovered.   “The injured suspect was taken to the General Hospital where he died while receiving treatment. Investigation has commenced with a view to arresting the other fleeing members of the syndicate.” Edafe also confirmed the arrest of a suspected armed robber and cultist, one Kingsley Vejeta believed to be terrorising Agbarho, Ughelli and environs. He said during interrogation, the suspect made a useful statement and later led operatives to the hideout of his gang members who, on sighting the police, took to their heels.  Edafe stated that seven locally made cut-to-size guns, and four live cartridges were recovered, adding that manhaunt for the fleeing suspects was ongoing.