By Chukwudi Nweje  The Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG) in association with Yoruba Assembly and Yoruba diaspora has stated that the task before the incoming government will be to restructure Nigeria. It noted that the subsisting 1999 constitution cannot see to the development of Nigeria. “We recognise however that more than ever before Nigeria is at a crossroad and that whoever emerged of the candidates, has a great responsibility to set the ship of nationhood on the right path. “We, as a people call on the incoming government to set itself on the task of restoring unity of all the peoples of the country. This however has to be predicated on building a Nation where all the diverse people are equitable members in the country. This can only be precipitated with a wholesome reform and Restructure of the Constitution of the Country. We no longer can pretend that the 1999 Constitution can see or aid the peace, amity and development of the country. That Constitution cannot.” A statement signed by Olawale Oshun on behalf of the groups accused Obasanjo of championing the cancellation of the February 25 Presidential Election to ensure he is the only Yoruba to ever occupy the seat of Nigeria’s President. It said Obasanjo lacks the moral right to serve as a guiding beacon of Nigeria given his pedigree. He said,  “Gen. Olusegun Obasanjo lacks the moral right to serve as a guiding beacon. First, he is as politically partisan as any other Nigerian, which is his right but cannot at the same time be pretending to be father of the Nation. “We will be justified to impute motive and suggest that this 2023 attempt at wanting to render the elections inchoate as that of 1993 could just be that Gen. Obasanjo would want till his passing to remain the only Yorubaman to ever attain leadership of the country. “Gen. Obasanjo’s hand was heavy in the institution of the failed 1993 Interim government, a process that ultimately led to the restoration of the Military and Gen. Sani Abacha murderous regime and ultimately to the death of the President-elect, MKO Abiola; Obasanjo’s townsman.” The groups said the 2023 transition elections that has already begun with the presidential and National Assembly elections must be allowed to get to conclusion while aggrieved parties should seek redress in court. The group further said, “We, speaking for Yoruba people call for the completion of the 2023 electoral processes starting with the already held  National  elections and ending with the state executive and legislative elections and any Party or candidate can as provided for in the Electoral Laws seek justice in our Courts. Whoever emerges however has great unifying tasks ahead if Nigeria is to remain one.” It noted that Obasanjo’s call is an undue interference in the constitutional responsibility of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He added, “If Gen. Obasanjo succeeded in intervening in the elections held under him, he should at least grant the present President the full prerogative of wishing to bequeath a free and fair election in our country. We pray he is able to do that to the end.” He charged the military to steer clear of the unfolding developments, and warned that Nigerians would resist any unlawful intervention in the democratic process. “We also add that the Military should completely steer clear of whatever temporary  impasse that could occur as this is not unusual in all democracies. The Military should also turn a deaf ear to any possible incitement be it from retired Generals or their rank and file. The world has moved on and the Yoruba people will resist with other Nigerians were any misguided intervention to take place in our polity,” he stated.