From Scholastica Onyeka, Makurdi Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom has sworn in Hon Justice Maurice Ahemba Ikpambese as the Acting Chief Judge of the state. Ikpambese is taking over the leadership of the Judiciary in the state from Justice Aondover Kaka’an who was formally ushered out of the state’s service earlier on Thursday. Ortom, while congratulating the new helmsman for his well-deserved elevation, said that those who know Justice Ikpambese can attest to his being an erudite jurist whose knowledge and interpretation of the law are beyond reproach. “He is believed to be a fair, just and firm Officer of the Law. It is these qualities, in addition to many others, that have accounted for his career progress and eventual elevation to this exalted position today,” the governor stated. The governor noted the smooth transition from Justice Kaka’an to Justice Ikpambese which he said was without hostilities from among the senior Judges saying it is clearly, a symbolic representation of the unity, respect and goodwill that exist in the Benue Judiciary. He urged the Acting Chief Judge to settle down quickly to carry out his duties without any distractions and expressed hope that Justice Ikpambese will not just tow the footsteps of the previous Chief Judges but even strive to surpass them. He added that while the appointment is coming at a time when elections and litigations resulting from them are around the corner, he was sure that the very articulate and experienced Judge, would avoid all the landmines that are associated with such cases. He appreciated the cordial and harmonious working relationship between the three arms of government in the state saying “As we draw closer to the end of our second term in office, we will continue to work hand-in-hand for the good of our State. “We will not allow politics and other distractions to take us away from working closely for the smooth running of Benue and the hand-over to the next democratically elected government in our state,” he said. Ortom pledged government cooperation, support and prayers for the Acting Chief Judge and further called for similar blessings from the Bench and the Bar for the new appointee.