House of Representatives-elect for Idemili North and South Constituency, Uche Harris Okonkwo, has urged OBIdients to once again troop out in higher numbers on Saturday to vote LP candidates in the governorship and House of Assembly polls.  Appealing to all supporters of the Obi-Datti movement and the LP not to be downcast, he said, “Now more than ever must we stand up to stand up as winners, not fixers or connivers because our presidential candidate and LP need to be proved to all as the true conscience of our nation and liberation.” Reinforcing the critical urgency to come out more than they did in the presidential election, he continued: “Let me make it even clearer, that good governance for speedy prosperity for you and me, is only realistically and better impacted at the grassroots, which are the states, and of course the local governments. So a vote for Labour Party candidates in this vital elections on Saturday is your evident affirmation to be connected to your primary development centres as a constitutional right, for a bonded thriving nationhood. Please and please again, come out forcefully as pioneers of our movement, to resiliently assert your role in history, by rejecting the desperate mafia schemes of them that count you as articles to be bought, than humans to be loved and protected.” On the position of his party, and its presidential candidate’s rejection of results as announced by INEC, Okonkwo clarified that Nigerians were aware that in terms of correcting abused political processes and illicit institutional electoral brigandage, Peter Obi is as accomplished as no other in the country.  “His records are there, verified and acknowledged. He has the best original copy of obedience to the rule of law, faith in the adjudication of our courts, and patience to retrieve what is grabbed unlawfully from popular mandate. He has been triumphant thus far, and our best energy must be to support a bondage breaker as him. The intimidations must not scare us nor the weakening of spirits be accommodated, because those using these notorious tools, already know we are better, hence they  remain blind to our resolve to clean their mess neat and permanent.  “I take this opportunity to once again thank the gracious people of Idemili North and South for their special confidence reposed on me, in the last elections and reassure them and our nation, that the desires of the youths remain inclusively best, that our country be governed by competence, character, capacity and compassion.” In a related development, the Youths Expressions for Service (YES) and Let’s Get Empowered Foundation, have in separate releases by the Executive Secretary, Collins Steve Ugwu, thanked the great people of Idemili North and South federal constituency, for keying into their gospel of liberation for progress, by massively voting for their points man, Okonkwo as their preferred voice in the hallowed National Assembly. , noting that in fidelity to to his promises, they will see a performance above what was canvassed to them.