From Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked INEC to withdraw the Certificate of Return issued to Bola Tinubu and nullify the election in line with its powers under Section 65 of the Electoral Act 2022.      The opposition party, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, insisted that the commission contravened  provisions of the 1999 Constitution, the Electoral Act 2022 and the INEC guidelines and regulations for the conduct of the 2023 presidential election. The PDP maintained that  its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, won the 25 contest having evidently scored the majority of lawful votes cast by Nigerians at the polling units   “Sadly, the election was marred by deliberate malpractices including the non-use of the Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) and INEC’s refusal/failure to transmit directly the results from Polling Units to its Server/Website in flagrant violation of Section 60 (4)(b) of the Electoral Act 2022. “This violation of the Electoral Act by INEC as attested to by political parties, voters, Nigerians of all walks of life as well as local and International Observers, paved the way for the alteration, falsification, switching of results and allocation of figures in favour of the APC. “Nigerians can recall how on Friday, November 11, 2022, INEC through its National Commissioner and Chairman of INEC’ Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, assured that results will be transmitted directly from the Polling Units to ensure the integrity and credibility of election results in Nigeria. “By refusing therefore to transmit directly the results from the Polling Units, INEC violated the Electoral Act and its Rules and Regulation, compromised the process and marred the integrity and credibility of the election results. “The PDP, therefore, asserts that consequent upon the violation by INEC of Section 60 (4) of the Electoral Act, 2022 and its rules and guidelines on the election, the results announced by the INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, having not been earlier transmitted directly from the polling units before the announcement are ultra vires, of no consequence and cannot stand. Consequently, our party and its presidential candidate have commenced action for legal redress to reclaim our victory in the 2023 presidential election. “We appeal to our numerous supporters in Nigeria and across the world to remain calm, resilient, resolute and steadfast in the defence of democracy and the victory of our party in the 2023 presidential elections.”