The foundation laying ceremony of a $1.6billion Tingo Food Processing Factory recently took place in Ishiekpe village, Onicha-Ugbo, Aniocha North Local Government, Delta State. This brought immense joy all over the community. Founder of the project, Mr. Dozy Mmobuosi, described the project as “first of its kind. It will create employment, especially the youths. It will also save Africa from paying foreign exchange to import finished food products. “It will aid the export of made-in-Africa foods to the world, enhance intra-Africa trade via the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement and sell high-quality and nutritious food products to the people of the continent. “This investment is a way of giving back to my community.” He vowed to revolutionise the African food industry and create direct employment for the youths: “This will provide a significant boost to the Nigerian economy and contribute to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “The SDGs aim to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure peace and prosperity for all. The facility’s job creation and wealth creation agenda will help support SDG 8, Decent Work and Economic Growth, and SDG 2, Zero Hunger.” The factory is expected to begin operations in the next 18 to 24 months. Mmobuosi noted: “The facility will be the first phase of a multibillion-dollar investment that Tingo International Holdings plans to make in the African food industry. The company will decongest the labour market with the creation of no fewer than 12,000 direct jobs.” The event was graced by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Dr Mohammad Mahmood Abubakar, the monarch of Onicha-Ugbo, Obi Chukwumalieze 1, president-general of Onicha-Ugbo Patriotic Union, Peter Kogolo and others. Obi Chukumalieze challenged other sons and daughters of the land to emulate Mmobuosi and bring industries to the community: “If many factories are sited in the community, people will be gainfully employed and will not go into crime.”