Identity management and digital solutions firm, Seamfix, has partnered with MTN Group, to extend SIM registration services into five African countries.  Seamfix CEO, Chimezie Emewulu, in a statement, yesterday, said MTN Group is leveraging the Seamfix enrollment suite using BioSmart Solution, a robust Biometric SIM Registration solution, to benefit over 30 million of its subscribers in Cote D’Ivoire, Guinea Bissau, Liberia, Guinea, and Sudan. He said: “With our success in Nigeria, we are excited to partner with MTN Group to expand our digital presence in five African countries. The Seamfix enrollment suite has been a game-changer in capturing and validating biometric identities and records in real-time. Our solution is designed to increase security, drive efficiency, reduce costs, and create a better customer experience. At Seamfix, we are proud to say that we already provide this solution for MTN and other telecommunications companies in Nigeria. Our solution has enabled us to power an impressive 250,000 sim registrations monthly, translating to approximately 3 million sim registrations annually.”  Emewulu said the Seamfix enrollment suite, which powers the BioSmart engine, provides a range of features, including biometric capture and validation, digital signatures, liveness detection, face-to-ID match, and offline registration.  “It helps MTN Group identify mobile phone SIM owners, track criminals using phones for fraudulent activities, provide better services to customers, and increase revenue streams. The Seamfix enrollment suite is compliant with regulatory standards and trusted by government and private organisations to create a secure digital infrastructure.”  Emewulu said Seamfix is committed to providing innovative solutions that help people enable trust in the way they work, live and learn.  “The partnership with MTN Group solidifies Seamfix’s commitment to helping businesses and their customers globally to seamlessly create, verify, and access trusted digital identities and services,” he said.