From Adanna Nnamani, Abuja As the world marks another International Women’s Day (IWD), the Baobab for Women’s Human Rights organization, a civil society group, has lamented the general lack of sexual health information available to women and girls as well as the obstacles to reproductive rights caused by culture, religion, beliefs, and laws that are hostile to women’s human rights.  In a statement to commemorate the day, Ms. Bunmi Dipo-Salami, executive director of BAOBAB, expressed concern that women around the world continue to face discrimination and inequality despite several initiatives against gender inequality.  She called for the domestication and implementation of regional and international laws that protect and promote women’s rights, especially the Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights on the Rights of Women in Africa (The Maputo Protocol) which has been adjudged one of the world’s most comprehensive and progressive women’s human rights instruments.  “Women’s sexual and reproductive health, which is related to multiple human rights, including the right to life, the right to be free from torture, the right to health, the right to privacy, the right to education and so forth continues to be undermined.” She said.  Dipo-Salami however, however, lauded the theme of this year’s celebration, “DigitALL: Innovation and Technology for Gender Equality.”, pointing out that the digital age offers an unmatched opportunity because of the growing number and use of mobile phones and internet connectivity, which has made it easier for survivors of gender-based violence to access support spaces, improve access to high-quality healthcare, including reproductive health information and services, and develop new skills. “It highlights the power of innovative digital technology in improving the lives of women and girls by eliminating all forms of discrimination and inequality.  “The theme aligns with the priority theme for the upcoming 67th Session of the Commission on the Status of Women (CSW-67), “Innovation and technological change, and education in the digital age for achieving gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls”.   “Across the world, studies have shown that technology has the potential for opening new doors for the global empowerment of women and girls through gender-responsive digital learning, tech-facilitated sexual and reproductive healthcare, and addressing the pervasive threat of online gender-based violence, an evolving challenge which oftentimes lacks legal recourse.  “The components of online gender-based violence include privacy violations, sexual harassment, trafficking, cyberstalking, and so forth.Similarly, the COVID-19 pandemic has thrown up digital innovations which have improved advocacy to end sexual and gender-based violence, as well as capacity building for a wide range of stakeholders, especially young women, through online training, and webinars on social media platforms. It must be noted, however, that although women’s contribution to the digital world cannot be overemphasized, their accomplishments have not been met with commensurate appreciation.  The ED urged the Nigerian government to take its responsibility of protecting the lives of vulnerable and marginalized groups, particularly women more seriously.  “It is also critical to create a digital future in which all members of the Nigerian society enjoy equal rights to safety, dignity and freedom, protect women and girls from online gender-based violence, and close the existing digital gender divide.  “We urge non-state actors to continue to double efforts to discuss strategies, lessons, successes, and challenges to stimulate actions for the protection and promotion of women’s rights through digital platforms. “We also call on all and sundry to embrace equity by enabling a violence-free society where both men and women, men and boys alike have access to opportunities and enjoy rights that enable the growth and development of the nation.” She enjoined.