From Noah Ebije, Kaduna The Supreme Council for Sharia in Nigeria (SCSN) as well as Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) have appealed to Nigerians to desist from unguarded utterances over the expected outcome of the presidential election held on Saturday. Both Shariah Council and JNI spoke on Tuesday at separate events on the need for the people to exercise restraints in plugging the country into anarchy and chaos through unhelpful comments. Shariah Council at a press conference by its Secretary General, Nafi’u Baba Ahmed, flanked by other members of the council said it was their prayer that there should be a peaceful outcome of the election results. “The Supreme Council for Sharia in Nigeria, as other millions of Nigerians, have been following the collation and intermittent announcements of the results of the recent presidential and National Assembly elections with keen interest and the prayerful hope of a peaceful outcome.  “The council wishes to express gratitude to Allah, the most exalted, who in His infinite wisdom and mercy spared our lives and granted us the opportunity to discharge our basic civic duty and the right to participate in the democratic transition that will in Shaa’ Allah, usher in a new President and members of the National Assembly, with relative peace, contrary to earlier fears and negative prophecies of doomsday seers”,hmed said  He  expressed the Council’s satisfaction with the general conduct of the elections, in spite of unavoidable security and logistic challenges, and commended Nigerians for the unprecedented turn out, their patience and orderly conduct, generally, during the elections. He also commended INEC and the security agencies for their professionalism and fair discharge of their statutory responsibilities by enabling citizens to exercise their rights to vote in relative peace and serenity. “Council reminds Nigerians and especially foreign observers that no democratic election is perfect; even in the so called advanced democracies, the credibility of any election is predicated on the scale of fairness and the freedom of choice, which have incontrovertibly been substantially complied with. Here, the recent debacle in the last disputed American election about two years ago between Trump and Biden readily comes to mind. “Council also remind Nigerians, especially the political class aspiring to lead, that in every election, there are bound to be winners and losers, but in the end, it is the future and progress of the country that is paramount and this can only be achieved through a stable and peaceful transition. We further urge all Nigerians to remain calm and hopeful of a greater and prosperous future. “Council call on the security agencies to be alert and alive to their responsibilities of maintaining public order, peace and security, in the face of unguarded, provocative and unpatriotic remarks and outbursts by some people who believe the outcome must reflect their personal wishes or preferences. In this regard, we are in total agreement with the reaction of General Akinrinade to the preposterous and unhelpful comments by former president Obasanjo. Nigerians will not accept any delusional contraption being mooted. “Council appeals to the gladiators to accept the outcome or seek redress through the legal process, and avoid inflammatory remarks capable of inciting their supporters into any form of misconduct. “Council further appeals to all Nigerians to remain calm and respect the will of the majority as expressed through the ballot box and embrace their brethren and the emerging leaders for a brighter, secure and prosperous Nigeria, for today and the future generations. We should all remember that there can never be progress and prosperity without peace, stability and security. “I will conclude with a final appeal to the government and the security agencies not to spare any group or individual, no matter his status or privilege in society, who seeks to stoke hatred, incitement to violence or otherwise engages in acts capable of creating disharmony, disruption of peace or compounding the delicate security situation of our dear country”. JNI in a statement by its Secretary General, Sheikh Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu said, “JNI  observed with serious concern the most unfolding events arising from the collation of the 2023 General Elections’ results and the resultant inflammatory statements and venomous commentaries being peddled, which tantamount to overheating the polity. We strongly believe that there are processes and procedures provided by the constitution and the electoral act for those who disagree with the outcome of the election result process wholly or partly to seek for redress.  “We would equally like to remind all political gladiators that there must be a secured and peaceful Nigeria first and foremost before it is well-governed, which they all surprisingly are aiming at.”