From Adanna Nnamani, Abuja A day after the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) issued Asiwaju Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) certificate of return as president-elect, candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, has said he won the election and he has vowed to explore all legal options to reclaim his mandate. Tinubu polled 8, 794,726 to defeat Atiku Abubakar of the PDP garnered 6, 984,520 and Mr Peter Obi  who had 6,101,533.  Mr. Obi’s running mate, Datti Baba-Ahmed, had earlier insisted at a media briefing on Wednesday in Abuja that the elections did not meet the requirements for a free and fair election.  He reaffirmed the party’s commitment to acting in accordance with the law to pursue justice and urged the judiciary to demonstrate its independence when the case is brought before a court. He added that he and his principal would not be persuaded by any amount of pressure to preach against calm and peace and urged Nigerians to cast their votes en masse for the LP in the oncoming gubernatorial and state House of Assembly elections. He said: “It is our position that the purported result didn’t not meet the minimum criteria of a transparent, free and fair election in addition to the most condemnable attacks, voters intimidation and suppression.  “Please be assured of our determination to fight the injustice that has been perpetuated on Nigerians through all legal and peaceful means. We employ you all to please remain peaceful and calm as our fight and determination for a new Nigeria is just beginning. We equally encourage you all to continue with the campaigns and vote massively for Labour Party in the forthcoming governorship and states House of Assembly elections on 11 March. Our Principal, Mr Peter Obi, will in due course speak to you and indeed the nation. The former governor of Anambra State, who broke his silence for the first time since the conclusion of the presidential and National assembly elections on Saturday during a media conference in Abuja yesterday, alleged that the poll did not meet the minimum standard for a free and fair election, adding that the poll will go down as the most controversial election conducted in Nigeria. He said the LP would follow all available legal and peaceful procedures to reclaim its mandate. “The people we’re fighting against have decided that we’ll not succeed but we’ve also decided that we’ll succeed.”  He noted that Nigerians trooped out en-masse to participate in what was promised and expected to be free, fair and transparent Presidential and National Assembly elections. He said that the election had been conducted and results announced, but, according to him, it was a clear deviation from the electoral rules and guidelines as promised. Obi said he was robbed of his mandate but he would contest it in court as an obedient member of the society. “However, let me humbly and most respectfully appeal to all Nigerians to remain peaceful, law-abiding and conduct yourselves in a most responsible manner. “Please be assured that for Datti and I, and indeed for all of us, this is not the end, but the beginning of the journey to birth a new Nigeria.”  Obi said Datti and himself remained undaunted and committed to the project of a new Nigeria that would be built on honesty, transparency, fairness, justice and equity. “All of these start with the process, the process through which people are elected to office is as important if not more important than what they do thereafter with the office and authority. “If we seek to be called Your Excellency, then the process through which we are elected should also be excellent or sufficiently credible to generate the required confidence and moral authority to govern and lead. “Let me reiterate and assure my good people of Nigeria that we will follow all available legal and peaceful procedures to reclaim our mandate,” he said. According to Obi, the destruction of a society can be a gradual or sudden process through acts such as deliberate refusal to obey the rule of law and via the suppression of the will of the people. He urged his supporters to continue with their campaigns and troop out on Saturday, March  11, to vote again for LP governorship and state Assembly elections. “Please do not despair at a time when we can still achieve massive victories in the forthcoming elections.”  Obi appreciated and thanked all Nigerians that participated in the elections, especially those who voted LP. “My profound thanks go to the youths, ‘Obidients’ and support groups for your commitment and resilience for a better Nigeria. “You truly showed that you can take back your country; we will continue to pray for the repose of the souls of all Nigerians killed during the campaigns and for those that were violently attacked, we pray for their quick recovery. “We reiterate our total condemnation of such attacks and continue to demand that security agencies stop further attacks and bring perpetrators to book,” he said.