By Lukman Olabiyi All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart in Ogun State, Mutairu Owoeye, has congratulated the president-elect, Bola Tinubu, describing him as a moving train that cannot be stopped. The community leader and estate consultant stated this at an event he organised for members of Asiwaju Support Moving Train (ASMT) to celebrate the victory of Tinubu. The event held at Atan Ota in Ogun State, was attended by hundreds of party supporters in Atan, Ota and its environs.  Owoeye commended members of the group for their support during the election and urged them to repeat the feat in the governorship and House of Assembly elections. Owoeye, who is the grand patron of the group, described Tinubu as a leader, who through hard work, and foresight, worked tirelessly for enthronement of democracy, and stability of APC, which has now won three consecutive presidential elections. He assured that Tinubu would lead the country to prosperit.  “A Tinubu presidency will deepen democracy and bring about socio-economic development of the country. His victory is a demonstration of his acceptance across the country and beyond. He did it before as the governor of Lagos State, he will do it again even more for Nigeria.”  He said Tinubu’s genuine investment in human, national development, and national integration played some critical roles in endearing him to all sections of the country, adding that his victory will be a morale booster for Africa, as a continent, and for the practice of global democracy. Owoeye urged the Asiwaju support group, and other critical stakeholders to, as a matter of patriotism, join hands in the task of moving the nation forward and urged other presidential candidates and their supporters to calm down and channel their worries through the appropriate quarters, adding that Nigerians do not have another country apart from Nigeria. In her remarks, the National President of ASMT, Mujidat Adegbenro, thanked Nigerians for their massive support, stressing that they will not be disappointed. Adegbenro stated that the Nigerian voters have chosen as president a man who has dedicated his life to achieving democracy and reform for his homeland “There is no perfect democracy anywhere in the world. Therefore, we call on the opposition to focus on the merits of last Saturday’s presidential poll and eschew any act capable of derailing our democratic gains since the country returned to civil rule in 1999,” she said. She commended Owoeye for his foresight and support given to the group before, during and after the election.