From Judex Okoro, Calabar The Cross River state All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have been engage in a war of words over deployment of military for the general elections.  While APC decries the presence of military at the last Presidential and National Assembly elections and are discreely lobbying against it in subsequent  election, the PDP hailed their presence and commented the military for its professional conduct that led to peaceful outcome of the Febrary 25 poll. The APC state party chairman, Mr. Alphonsus Ogar, while speaking with journalists in a post election press briefing in Calabar, attributed the loss of  February 25 National Assembly elections to opposition PDP to alleged intimidation of some military personnel who allegedly connieved with corrupt political opponents robbed the APC victory. According to Ogar, the military deployed tanks through the aide of some of thier sons particularly in Ugaga community and got us intimidated and called for the trial of soldiers allegedly involved.  Dismissing allegations against the military as hogwash, the Chairman  of the PDP in Cross River State, Venatius Ikem, said the military curbed the excesses of people allegedly recruited by the APC for violence and the party is looking for excuses for its loss. In his words, “The issue was not politicised in any way. The military were neutral and picked up anyone they suspected  and were subsequently handed over to the police for prosecution. “The APC would rather prefer to have a field day where they will harass, intimidate and if possible maim people so they can win elections as they did in the by- elections and are speaking up against the presence of the military. “The APC chairman and the governor lost elections in almost every polling unit in the north. It was a very embarrassing loss and they have to look for some excuse to give to sustain how a chairman/governor lost so woefully. “In the north, their plan was violence and we have been complaining about this. We thank God the security apparatus of the country had taken certain flash points. “In Cross River North, this prevented the APC  from doing what they planned to do and that completely removed the strength they relied on”,  Ikem stayed. PDP chairman disclsed that they are aware that APC and some top members of top police command had written petition against deployment of military, calling on federal government to discontented such frivolous petition. He said soldiers were deployed across the state and wondered how come it is only in Cross River North that soldiers stopped them from winning.