From Fred Ezeh, Abuja  House of Representatives member-elect for Etche/Omuma Federal constituency of Rivers state, Kelechi Nwogu, has promised to deliver dividends of democracy to his constituents.  Nwogu who contested and won the election on the platform of the People’s democratic Party (PDP), defeated his closest rival, Ephraim Nwizu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in last Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly election to emerge winner of the Etche/Omuma Federal constituency.  Nwogu, in a statement released on Friday, reaffirmed his commitment to improving the lives of his constituents through quality representation and equitable distribution of dividends of democracy. Part of the statement reads: “I have always assured my people that i will be the voice of the Etche nation. I will give the good people of Etche the voice they deserve by making sure that they have their share of the dividends of democracy and as well carry everyone along irrespective of their political linings. “During the campaigns, i told the people that if elected i will open two constituency offices; one at each local governrment to help interface between the people and myself. This, i am committed to doing. “Having served at the Rivers State House of Assembly (RVSHA), I know most of the problems facing my people and I will make sure I bring them to fore at the National Assembly. I will deploy all my contacts towards ensuring that what belongs to my people gets to them.” Nwogu further promised to empower more constituents, especially the youths by supporting their businesses as well as creating more Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) for the unemployed.  “If you have followed my political journey, you would know that I am committed to empowering my constituents by giving start-up seed funding, skills acquisition and many more because I know the importance of SMEs in any country’s economy. Developed countries give special attention to SMEs because of its positive multiplying effects on the economy, he said. Nwogu disclosed that some candidates of other political parties who contested with him in the February 25th election have called to congratulate him on his victory. “I am happy that we are making progress in our country’s democratic journey. “Some of my opponents in the last Saturday’s elections have called to congratulate me on my victory. I appreciate their calls, their spirit of sportsmanship, and I have promised them that we would work together to move the constituency forward,” he said. Nwogu further thanked the good people of Etche for giving massive votes to PDP in the last Saturday’s election which culminated to his victory and urged the good people of Rivers State to do same on March 11th elections.