From Scholastica Onyeka, Makurdi Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, has sworn in Justice Maurice Ahemba Ikpambese, as Acting Chief Judge. Ikpambese takes over the leadership of the judiciary in the state from Justice Aondover Kaka’an, who was formally ushered out of the state’s service earlier, yesterday. Ortom congratulated the new judge for his well-deserved elevation describing him as an erudite jurist whose knowledge and interpretation of the law is beyond reproach.  “He is believed to be fair, just and firm officer of the law. It is these qualities, in addition to many others, that have accounted for his career progress and eventual elevation to this exalted position today.” The governor lauded the smooth transition from Justice Kaka’an to Justice Ikpambese  without dissent from among the senior judges saying it is clearly, a symbolic representation of the unity, respect and goodwill that exists in Benue judiciary. He urged the acting Chief Judge to settle down quickly to carry out his duties without any distractions. He also expressed hope that Justice Ikpambese would not just tow the footsteps of the previous Chief Judges but even strive to surpass them. He said Ikpambese’s appointment was coming at a time when litigations from elections would be flooding the courts and expressed the confidence that as an experienced judge, he would discharge his job creditably. Ortom appreciated the cordial and harmonious working relationship between the three arms of government in the state. “As we draw closer to the end of our second term in office, we will continue to work hand-in-hand for the good of our state.  We will not allow politics and other distractions to take us away from working closely for the smooth running of Benue and the hand-over to the next democratically elected government in our state.” Ortom pledged government cooperation, support and prayers for the Acting Chief Judge and further called for similar blessings from the bench and the bar for the new appointee.