From John Adams, Minna A group of youths under the auspices of “Aggrieved Nigerian Youths” on Wednesday stormed the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Office in Minna,  the state capital over what they alleged high level irregularities and manipulations in last Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections. The youths numbering about 100 and led by one Mr. Mike Junior marched through the major highway in Minna to the INEC office to protest what they called ‘rigged’ results of the presidential election. The peaceful protesters were received at the INEC office by the Secretary, Administration, INEC Mallam Yakubu Doko. Addressing the placards carrying youths, the Secretary commended them for conducting themselves in a peaceful manner, assuring them of the Resident Electoral Commissioner’s assurance that whenever the headquarters of INEC says will be communicated to them in due cause. According to Doko who represented the State REC, Alhaji Ahmed Yusha’u Garki, “INEC is transparent, we are open. We have nothing to hide, but for clarifications on the uploading of results, we will wait to hear from the INEC headquarters in Abuja”. The presence of hefty and heavy security officers at the INEC office could not deter the youths from the peaceful march, threatening that no force can stop them from expressing their reservations over the INEC coup against the  Nigeria electorates. The youths demanded from the Independent National Electoral Commission why the presidential election polling units results where not transmitted electronically to the INEC result viewing portal contrary to the electoral act 2022. Leader of the group, Mike Junior said they were angry that the presidential election results were not transmitted via the IReV portal, alleging a high level fraud. According to him “our anger is the results. We demand an IReV result. Electronically transmitted results, the ones Mahmood Yakubu promised us that made us to come out to cast our votes. “From the polling units to wards to area councils to the states. So, that’s what we demand. We will not take rigging for an answer. We need original result”. Some of the inscriptions on their placards include “Tax payers money wasted”. “We can’t continue like this”; “INEC Chairman a disappointment to his generation”; “This is Election Fraud “; “No BVAS, no results that is our stand”; “Nigerian Youths are disappointed”; “We are one Nigeria”. END Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android