From Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure Ondo State Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, has averred that the trial of corrupt cases should not be the exclusive preserve of the Federal Government.  Governor Akeredolu explained that since the commission of certain offences is local, it is proper that the trial be conducted in the place where the offence is committed. The governor spoke at the inauguration of members of Ondo State Independent Electoral Commission (ODIEC), members of the state Public Complaints, Financial Crime and Anti-Corruption Commission as well as members of Governing Council of State owned Tertiary Institutions.  Chairman of the State Public Complaints, Financial Crime and Anti-Corruption Commission is the immediate past Chief Judge of the state, Justice Williams Akintoroye. At the well attended inauguration held at the Cocoa Conference Hall, Governor’s Office, Alagbaka, Akure, Akeredolu also charged members of ODIEC, under its Chairman, Dr Joseph Aremo, to remain impartial umpire and assist in deepening the democratic practice.  He said: ”The Ondo State Independent Electoral Commission is one of the tripod, a very important institution, whose effectiveness determines the extent of peace and stability at the grassroots. This commission is empowered by law to conduct elections to elect those who will serve the people of Ondo State at the local level.  “The members of this commission will conduct local government elections. Their ability to remain impartial umpires will assist, tremendously, in deepening our democratic practice. There is the argument which holds that since this body is normally constituted by the state government, it is unwise to rely on its activities.  “We assert, without any fear of contradiction, that our administration has been fair to all and sundry since the inception of this administration. There is no compelling reason for us to embrace injustice and illegality at this stage. Not at all.” Inaugurating the Ondo State Public Complaints, Financial Crime and Anti-Corruption Commission, Governor Akeredolu said the establishment of the commission followed due process and in line with the claim that the current arrangement in the country is a federal system of government. While describing the commission as a novelty in the state, he charged the commission to beam its searchlight on the public service.  “The commission of certain offences is local. Corruption trials should not be the exclusive preserve of the federal government. Stealing is also an offence against the state. Therefore, if an allegation of crime falls within the purview of the state’s criminal jurisdiction, it is proper that the trial be conducted in the place where the offence is committed.   “This commission is expected to combat crime effectively. Intelligence gathering should commence from the execution of the state budget passed into law. It is basic. It is our hope that this body will be able to track budgetary allocations for the benefit of the people. All other engagements should focus on ensuring that the monies appropriated and released are utilised in the interest of the people. There are other matters ancillary to this basic function. Corruption, as a social vice, has a wide spectrum. The unwholesome activities of public servants must come under close scrutiny.  “There is virtually no area of public service that has not been infested with this virus. It is a shame that the state still battles to know the exact figure of those she owes obligations as workers. It is deplorable, indeed, that the government carries a heavy burden of salaries and emoluments of characters entirely unknown to the establishment. These elements join others to exact pressures on the government. It is our hope that not only will those behind this disgraceful act be exposed, they must also have their days in court,” governor Akeredolu said.  The governor charged members of the governing councils of the state owned institutions to think outside the box. He assured that the state will be willing to grant the institutions full autonomy. The institutions are, Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA); University of Medical Sciences (UNIMED) Ondo; Olusegun Agagu University of Science and Technology (OAUSTECH), Okitipupa and Rufus Giwa Polytechnic (RUGIPO), Owo.  Pro-Chancellor/Chairman of AAUA is Dr. Tunji Abayomi, while that of UNIMED is Prof. Ayo Arowojolu. Pro-Chancellor/Chairman of OAUSTECH is Prof. Akinbo Akinwumi Adesomoju just as Chief Banji Alabi is the Chairman of RUGIPO.