By Damilola Fatunmise There is war in Nollywood as star actors exchange altercations on social media over the last presidential election. The accusations, counter-accusations, abuses and threats all started when Adams Kehinde popularly known as Lege Miami in the Yoruba movie sector posted a video on his Instagram page, warnings actress Iyabo Ojo for posting presidential election results on her page without waiting for INEC to do so.  In her reaction, however, Iyabo Ojo accused Lege of intrusion into her private affairs, saying he has no right to tell her what to post and what not to post on her Instagram page. Ojo, a staunch supporter of the Labour Party’s presidential candidate, Peter Obi, added that since she never dictated to Lege and others which candidates to support, he should desist from dabbling into her affairs.  Following that, half-caste thespian, Adunni Ade, did a live video on Instagram in which she called out some of her colleagues, describing them as “Alatenuje” (glutton) who “campaigned for two months and got paid a token N90,000 each”. But then, those Adunni mentioned did not spare her too. They attacked her and both parties resorted to washing their dirty linens in public, exposing how some of them used to go beg for money from the Lagos NURTW boss, Musiliu Akinsanya popularly known as MC Oluomo. Joining the fray, the likes of Basira Badia, Kehinde Adams and Bukky Adekogbe aka Aminatupapa also attacked Iyabo Ojo for throwing her weight behind Peter Obi who’s not favoured by MC Oluomo, a close political ally of the APC presidential candidate, now president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The artistes believed that Ojo has been a direct beneficiary of MC Oluomo’s magnanimity, a claim that the actress did not deny but wondered how that was their headache. The English-speaking sector of the industry too was not spared, as Georgina Chigozie Onuoha also came for her former bestie, Chioma Akpotha, on her view on the presidential election. As the fracas continues, however, a source close to the warring entertainers told The Sun that there is an attempt by AGN and NANTAP to wade into the issues.