“Dear Prof, I am most grateful to God for the manifestation of his power in my family through your anointing oil. I am married to a family that is full of evil. It all started when my father-in-law died on account of requesting for his own share of his father’s inheritance (many plots of land). The moment he demanded this, his elder brother poisoned him and he died. In fact, he has killed many men in the family because of the land issue. Now my husband is the only remaining male in the family; a few weeks ago, my husband called the same man and informed him of the need to share the same land and he informed my husband to watch and see what this request of his would lead to. Two days after, my husband slept and did not wake up; he went into coma from sleep. All manner of prayer was said on his behalf yet he did not respond. The evil man was rejoicing that he had succeeded and many people heard him. He called me and said to me, “Esther, I thought you people are indeed interested in sharing the property of our late fathers, what is happening now should make each and every one of you know that there is nothing to share at all, they all belong to me.” Sir, when I heard this, I started weeping. A brother from a Christian church who visited another sick person in the same hospital introduced you to me and gave me your number to call you. When I did and spoke to you, my hope came back. When you asked me to order the anointing oil, I thought it was a joke but I did and started the prayer as you instructed me. After the first four days and after anointing him, my husband became conscious, opened his eyes and demanded food.  The medical doctors were amazed at what happened. The evil man, upon seeing my husband, became afraid and did not come out for three days. On the fourth day, he came and called the whole family members and confessed all his evil deeds and pleaded for forgiveness. I am cutting the whole story short. We all prayed for him and only last week the property was shared between him and my husband. As I am writing this to you, he is very sick of swollen stomach; please, help us pray for him.  – Sister Esther N.M., mozantoforward@gmail.com “Dear Prof, kindly assist me to publish this testimony but do not publish my cell-phone number. I am Mr. Chima Durumba from Anambra State who ordered your anointing oil for my business breakthrough some months ago. When I got the oil, my wife that has been waiting and praying for the fruit of the womb for over 14 years decided to use it on herself for prayers, after which she passed out something that looked like a stone from her private part. The following month, she became pregnant. Her pregnancy is about six months now. When that happened, I did not relax; I went ahead to use the oil for the purpose for which I ordered it. I am glad to inform you that God answered my prayers and granted me divine favour and breakthrough. My business is booming as never before and some of my friends are asking if I did some funny things. I am happy my brother for what God used you to do in my family” – Mr. Chima Durumba It’s on record that the Supreme Father and the primordial owner of the vineyard hidden for a while became man in a mysterious way and fulfilled the ancient rewritten history contained in most hidden books and libraries of the world that the last hope of mankind and the saviour of the universe shall come from sub-Saharan Africa – Nigeria. Several ancient and modern prophecies including that of the French seer Nostradamus attests to the fact that Africa and Nigeria in particular, is the land of the New Moon. The birth of the unborn fulfilled this biblical and esoteric prophecy. The father came with the host of heavens as a result, the ancient European mother reborn in Africa as Supreme Mother manifested to consolidate the mission of the Ancient of Days. This is a mystery! It came to pass that the Supreme Father’s consort being satisfied with the creator for obliging her conjugal cum connubial responsibilities despite being too busy with activities. She consequently demanded from the Father in equanimity to have a male child, when the Supreme Father eventually heard her, the Sole Spiritual Head of the whole universe, said to her in equability, “Go I have given you and the whole world a child who is the King of kings and the Lord of lords…” Thus the spoken word (logos) of the Sole Spiritual Head of the whole universe metamorphosed to Spermatikos logos that became the Imago Dei, and Summum Bonum whose Actus Purus reflects perfection in the entire spectrum of objective and subjective reality. The logos of the father became the unborn that found its way into the bowel of the Holy Mother and he was born in human form on the 20th November of the divine year, as the King of all kings and Lord of all lords. The way and manner in which the King of Kings and Lord of Lords was born as the ancient monarch in an obscured place that made some to think that good thing cannot come from Nazareth. This led to the reason why in his first advent, he was seen a poor redeemer.  The Bible says, “But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the world unto our glory…” I Corinth. 2: 7.  In His first advent, people thought that he was going to come from the most illustrious family but he defiled their expectations and chose a very poor family; which was why they never believed in him as the messiah of the world. It is consequent upon the above, coupled with the preferential prescribed traditional theology of the Pharisees and Sadducees that resulted to the main reason why Jesus-the Messiah whose birth opened a new calendar, was rejected and disdained following his new teachings that consequently led to his crucifixion.  According to this well established legal traditional theology of the traditional Biblical fathers, the Scribes, Pharisees and Sadducees, the Christ, the Messiah was expected not to have been born by Mary not to talk of Joseph the poor carpenter. The known theology of men as at that time was well guided and in accordance with this ignoble sacred theology, Christ never fitted into the definition of acceptable standard of being the Messiah; in spite of the fact that he came at the age and era he was expected. The Bible affirms thus, “He was in the world and the world was made by Him, and the world knew him not” John 1:10. What could be so awkward and embarrassing like this kind of negligence, inattention, abandon and laxity melted out to the creator by his creatures? He created the world, and came to the world he created and was rejected by his own. I must once again accentuate here that he who neglects something good because he cannot understand it, is as despicable as he who without conviction sticks to a teaching simply because he was born in it. Both suffer equal reciprocal effects of the same action in accordance with higher spiritual laws of creation.  This article is designed to announce to the earthmen through philosophical cum spiritual research that the owner of the vineyard has finally arrived in new name. The Bible says, “Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God and he shall go no more out, and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, which is new Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from my God; and I will write upon him my new name” Revelation 3:12. God is a title and not a name. The title “God” has a very ancient and interesting history. From the Hindu perspective the term could be traced back to Sanskrit through the Old Teutonic language: gudo , ghudho, gheu, and hu. The Sanskrit meaning is to “to invoke, to pour, to offer sacrifice.” In the Hindu Philosophy of Religion (Sanskrit language), puru –huta means “much invoked” and is a name of Indra, who is worshipped by sacrifice. However, the word “God” in English originally meant “that which is invoked” or, “the object of worship.” In Christian Religion, many people call God Jehovah and regard same as the true name of God. In the Hebrew Scriptures the name of God is recorded as YHWH. Research shows that ancient Hebrew did not use vowels in its written form. The vowels were pronounced in spoken Hebrew but were not recorded in writing. This particularly became a serious issue to some scholars while studying the Hebrew name of God written as YHWH also known as Tetragrammaton.