From Abel Leonard, Lafia In a bid to close the gap with its opponent, Governor Abdullahi Sule of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and it’s candidate David Emmanuel Ombugadu have received an endorsement from the Tiv nation in Nasarawa. Sun reports that David Ombugadu was giving a chieftaincy title, (Chief of all Chiefs in Tiv Land) by the representative of the traditional rulers, High Chief Daniel Aklor saying they have blessed him while urging all the sons and daughters of the Tiv people in Nasarawa state to vote for Ombugadu as he is the choosing one. Confirming the endorsement on Saturday, Leader of the Tiv nation in Nasarawa state, Thomas Gaar, who was a former INEC commissioner, stressed that endorsing Ombugadu of the PDP in the forthcoming governorship election was for the best interest of the Tiv people in the state. Against all odds, he said they are to prove to the world that the Tiv People are politically affiliated and could choose to support any political party that would protect their interest in the state noting that the perception that “no Tiv man could be in another party except APC is not true” “We are being killed, treated like people without origin, displaced at all zones in the state and we think the APC has failed us and we have all agreed together to vote for PDP candidate Ombugadu who had promised to carry us along.” The Tiv leader said they studied the both candidates critically and discovered that the PDP candidate David ombugadu had a Performance record, believed that Ombugadu has a good track record of performance and accomplishments in his previous roles, as a house of reps member representing the northern zone of the state and that he is capable of replicating the success if elected as governor. He further said the PDP candidate is from a humble home with a good leadership style, and believed that he has the qualities needed to lead the state effectively. “We endorse Ombugadu because of his clear and coherent vision for the development of Nasarawa state adding that he now has the support from influential figures, such as political leaders, traditional rulers, religious leaders, who have publicly declared their support for him. He said. Acknowledging the endorsement, Chairman of the party, Mr. Francis Orogu, who said the move by the PDP to court the Tiv community in Nasarawa and secure its endorsement on Saturday in Lafia the Nasarawa state capital is part of a broader strategy to gain support from other influential ethnic groups in Nasarawa state. According to Orogu, “the party is seeking to showcase its commitment to inclusivity and diversity, as well as its ability to represent the interests of different groups across the state. He said the only party that had included the Tiv people in governance was the PDP when they were in power, adding that if elected would do more. Orogu said the endorsement could also swaying undecided voters in the region to support the PDP candidate. “The party is hoping that the endorsement from the Tiv nation in Nasarawa will lend credibility to its campaign and convince voters that its candidate is the best choice for the region.” On his part, David Ombugadu of the PDP stressed that they are with the Tiv communities today to showcase their commitment to inclusivity and diversity adding that they had reached out to various ethnic groups, the party would demonstrate their commitment to inclusivity and diversity. Ombugadu appeals to the the Tiv groups in the state, Nasarawa state vote for him as his party is the only party with a clear vision of development, human capacity, developing infrastructure, creating an enabling environment for business to strive. “I am here to garner your support from influential leaders in the in the tiev communities, I am aware that influential leaders like you people seated here hold significant sway over the voting decisions of your followers, by engaging with leaders like all of you, the parties hope to win your support and endorsement is guaranteed.” he said “I am very much aware of your capacity to mobilize grassroots support, the party hopes to build a strong grassroots network of supporters in your community and would assure you that we will remain resolute in carrying you people along if elected.” I urge you to my come out on march 11, this month and vote all the candidates of the PDP so we could build Nasarawa state together. Sun reports that Tiv Stakeholders, sons and daughters from the 13 local government areas of the state were present during the open endorsement ceremony in Lafia the Nasarawa state capital.