By Henry Uche  Experts in the insurance and pension sectors are set to brainstorm on ways and means of enhancing customers’ satisfaction at the upcoming  2023 annual conference of BusinessToday Communication Ltd. The essence of the discourse is to identify the impediments and encumbrances towards customers’ satisfaction and find way forward, aimed at deepening penetration in both sectors.  The Commissioner for National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), Mr. Sunday Thomas, would be the special guest of honour, while the  Director General of National Pension Commission (PenCom), Mrs. Aisha Dahir – Umar has given her nod.  A statement by the Editor-In-Chief of the online platform, Nkechi Naeche-Esezobor, said NAICOM and PenCom would lead other professionals at the conference to discuss other burning issues in the sectors.  The conference slated for April 4, in Lagos is the seventh edition in the series, has the theme: “Consumer Satisfaction In Deepening Penetration In Insurance And Pension Sectors.” Muda Yusuf, the Chief Executive Officer, Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE) would deliver the Keynote address while the Chairman of the occasion is Babajide Olatunde- Agbeja, Chairman- Boff and Company Insurance Brokers Ltd.  Chairman, Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA) Mr. Segun Omoshein; President of Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria, (PenOp) Mr. Olumide Oyetan; Pension Guru and former Managing Director/CEO, Access Pension Fund Custodian Limited, Mrs. Idu Okwuosa- Okeahialami and the Director General NIA, Mrs Yetunde Ilori are expected to share a quantum of knowledge with attendees.  Equally, Association of Pension Desk Practitioners of Nigeria; Amagamated Traders Association Alakoro Market; Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), Nigerian Union of Pensioners, Trade Union Congress, Nigerian Labour Congress would also grace the session.  Others are: Association of Senior Staff of Banks Insurance and other Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI), Consumer Awareness Organisation, Market Women, People Living With Disability in Lagos, Nigerian Port Authority and Students of insurance (Laspotech). •