Former Enugu State Governor, Sullivan Chime, has endorsed  Dr. Peter Mbah, governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), describing him as the best for the state. Speaking at his Enugu residence during an interactive session with Mbah, businessmen and leaders at the weekend, Chime described Mbah as a huge opportunity for Enugu, noting that it takes a heart for service to leave a company like the one Mbah was working for, that was the number one recording over N1.4 trillion annual turnover to come home and offer to serve. “I have had interactions not just with Mbah, but also with Frank Nweke, Chijioke Edeoga, and to me, looking at the field, Peter Mbah is the best, most credible candidate Enugu can offer now. I have no reservations whatsoever in endorsing and supporting him. I believe, knowing Peter Mbah too well, that he will not disappoint Enugu. When I was working with Senator Chimaroke Nnamani, Mbah wasn’t a politician.  Mbah is still not a politician; he has held some political offices before, certainly not an elective office. The first thing I asked him when he came to me at the beginning of this journey was, ‘Are you leaving your empire to be governor?’ And he gave me a very nice answer.  “From our interactions, he is very clear on what he wants to do. He has a passion to give back to Enugu. He has the passion to take Enugu beyond what it was when we were there.  Let’s try and restore Enugu. That’s his passion; that’s why he leaves his business to come to ask to become the governor of Enugu State. “The other major contestants,  Edeoga for Labour, Frank Nweke for APGA,  even that of APC, Uche Nnaji, all played a role under Chimaroke Nnamani. We were all part of the Ebeano family because from 1999 to 2007, it was like there was no other political party in Enugu. The governor then chose to have everybody answer Ebeano so almost everybody that held public office in Enugu State, including me was part of the Ebeano family. There’s hardly any person, who was in politics then and in politics today that has nothing to do with Ebeano.”  Chime also dismissed claim that Mbah made a plea bargain with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). “Peter Mbah has never been charged for any offence. Just like any other person, who has held an executive position, you can’t be commissioner for finance in an administration where your boss was thoroughly investigated and charged to court without you being invited to be asked questions. So, he was invited by EFCC and investigated, but whether he was indicted or charged to court, the answer is no. He was never charged to court. So, all these stories of plea bargain never happened with him,” he said.