From Gyang Bere, Jos The Chairman of Global Coalition for Better and Brighter Nigeria (CBBN), Prophet Isa El-Buba, has accused INEC of commiting electoral fraud against the Presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, during the February 25 presidential polls. Prophet El-Buba disclosed this on Saturday while addressing Journalists in Jos and said Peter Obi was right to have claimed that he won the Presidential polls but denied the much-expected victory because of the alleged manipulation of the election by INEC. El-Buba said his group is fully behind the position of Obi on the outcome of the presidential polls which the Labour candidate vowed to take to court for justice. He noted that before the Saturday Polls, INEC Chairman Professor Mahmood Yakubu publicly assured the Nigerian public and the International community that INEC had made adequate preparation for a free and fair election but regretted the outcome of the polls fell below the expectations of Nigerians. El-Buba regretted that the outcome of last Saturday’s presidential elections left millions of Nigerians disappointed and disillusioned because of the unprofessional conduct of state and non-state actors that participated in the process. He added that the Electoral Act was amended in 2022 for the electronic transmission of results after they are declared at the polling units and that Nigerians participated in this process with the belief that the use of technology and adherence to the agreed electronic transmission of results to INEC servers at polling units would ensure free, fair, and transparent election, but regretted that the opposite happened. He alleged that INEC servers were shut down as presidential election results were about to be loaded into the electoral server. As such, the results could not be uploaded onto the INEC server, adding that “The Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) did not work as planned.” According to him, the failure has undoubtedly given room for manipulating the presidential results announced by the INEC Chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu at the Collation Centre in Abuja. “These manipulations were carried out under the watchful eyes and connivance of security Agents at several polling units and INEC offices. “The decision of INEC to go ahead to announce these doctored results based on manufactured voting has defeated the efforts made by Nigerians to see that the Electoral Act was amended to allow for electronic transmission of results.” He demanded for fresh conduct of the Presidential Polls in line with the provisions of the Electoral Act as amended.