From Godwin Tsa, Abuja Ahead of the governorship and House of Assembly elections, some indigenes of Plateau State living in the United States have urged all political parties and candidates to abide by the signed Peace Accord and accept the outcome of the elections. This is contained in a statement issued by the group, Plateau State Association USA, Inc (PSA-USA), signed by its National President, Dr Barth Shepkong, and made available to newsmen in Abuja. “In the upcoming gubernatorial and house of assembly elections, we encourage voters to remain peaceful and patient as they cast their votes. “We urge all political parties and candidates to abide by the signed Peace Accord and fully commit to supporting all efforts that ensure that only the Nigerian people decide who wins the election(s). “It is imperative for Nigeria’s stability and democratic consolidation that the process is conducted and concluded safely and credibly. “We encourage all actors to calm tensions and avoid violence of any sort proactively,” he said. He said the group had not endorsed any candidate or a political party for the election. According to him, while PSA USA does not endorse any single candidate or party, we strongly support a peaceful and transparent process that reflects the will of the people of Plateau State and Nigeria at large. Shepkong said the association would support and partner with whoever won the election in the state “as we continue to advocate for good governance. “Working with Plateau State citizens in the Diaspora will help create a sense of belonging and cement our passionate interests in contributing significantly to our state’s socioeconomic and political development.” According to him, PSA USA will continue to partner and advocate for a fair democratic process that reflects the will of our people and our collective goal for a #BetterPlateau. “Elections are a fundamental part of a functioning democracy, and all Nigerians deserve the chance to choose their future — freely and fairly. “Finally, the future belongs to all of us. Let’s work together to make it what we want. “It’s time we separate tribe and religion from politics, remember, change begins with you and I. Let us consciously work in building a better society,” he said.