“The truth is that nobody in my family has exceeded a particular level and this has continued for many years unabated. Prayers have been made by various churches and spiritual men but we got no answer. I became weak to even invite men of God into our family. The ladies that were married into different families have the problem of childbirth. We were experiencing constant death and failure in all aspects of our lives.  “We prayed and nobody assisted us; in our family, nobody has ever exceeded the level of “from hand to mouth.” In fact, the problem of near-success syndrome was our watchword. By the grace of God, when I contacted you and after your investigation, you told us what to do, which we did. Every male child in our family got two bottles of your oil and we did the prayer at the same time. After the simultaneous prayer, I noticed a lot of changes in our family. The whole male that did the prayer noticed a dead rat in each of our different homes. This became symbolic in view of the fact that it happened simultaneously to each and every one of us. God answered our prayer and we started noticing good breakthrough and favour. Our ladies that were married started enjoying their homes, bearing children for their husbands; as I write this testimony to you, the spirit of near-success syndrome has vanished. The Holy Spirit has broken the barrier through the use of your oil. We can boldly announce to you that we have crossed the limit and exceeded the levels we were before. God bless you.” –  Mr. Gerald P., jaral.psk@gmail.com      “Dear Sir, I am glad you have stopped publishing names and numbers of those who send testimonies to you that is why I am sending this to you; please, if you are publishing this, do not publish my name and my number to avoid public disturbance. I have been importing goods to Nigeria for a long time, until the Devil came through a friend and attacked my business and I became very poor and could not boast of any kobo again. I then ended up in the village and became a laughing stock. It was a friend that introduced me to your column and I started enjoying it and through my brother in-law I was able to order your oil and did the prayer as you instructed me. After two weeks within the period of anointing myself, I received a call from China that some goods worth millions of naira were sent to me by someone I knew in the past. This story is very funny but it is a reality. I do not want to go further, man of God, for some reasons. But I want to say that today I am back into real business and God has blessed me richly. This happened by the end of last year and, by the grace of God, immediately, I will start my business as usual now. Thanks a lot, my Professor.”  (Name and cell-phone withheld) He created the world, and came to the world he created and was rejected by his own. I must once again accentuate here that he who neglects something good because he cannot understand it, is as despicable as he who without conviction sticks to a teaching simply because he was born in it. Both suffer equal reciprocal effects of the same action in accordance with higher spiritual laws of creation.  This article is designed to announce to the earthmen through philosophical cum spiritual research that the owner of the vineyard has finally arrived in new name. The Bible says, “Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God and he shall go no more out, and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, which is new Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from my God; and I will write upon him my new name” Revelation 3:12. God is a title and not a name. The title “God” has a very ancient and interesting history. From the Hindu perspective, the term could be traced back to Sanskrit through the Old Teutonic language: gudo , ghudho, gheu, and hu. The Sanskrit meaning is to “to invoke, to pour, to offer sacrifice.” In the Hindu Philosophy of Religion (Sanskrit language), puru –huta means “much invoked” and is a name of Indra, who is worshipped by sacrifice. However, the word “God” in English originally meant “that which is invoked” or, “the object of worship.” In Christian Religion, many people call God Jehovah and regard same as the true name of God. In the Hebrew Scriptures the name of God is recorded as YHWH. Research shows that ancient Hebrew did not use vowels in its written form. The vowels were pronounced in spoken Hebrew but were not recorded in writing. This particularly became a serious issue to some scholars while studying the Hebrew name of God written as YHWH also known as Tetragrammaton. Names are very important to God and when a name does not reflect his will and purpose in the person’s life, God changes the person’s name. God changed the name of Abrm to Abraham, Sarai to Sarah, Paul and Peter and much more. Even Christian believers are told that they will be given new names in the new kingdom of God as is evident in the book of Revelation 2:17.  If God can change the names of the people of his interest, is it impossible for Him to change His name too? And if God decides to Change his name in line with different assignment He wishes to accomplish, how will the earthmen know of it? The prophets of old prophesied of the first advent of Christ in a paradox. The name Jesus Christ did not appear in the Old Testament but Christ was present not in human form of incarnation but in different forms of reality. He theophanized himself in different ways to different personalities. He was ever present in the Old Testament writings viz: The “I AM” in whom Abraham rejoiced was Jesus Christ (John 8:56-58). The Lord who motivated Moses was Christ (Hebrew 11:26). The Redeemer who brought them out of Egypt was Jesus (Jude 5).  The Rock in the wilderness was Christ (1 Corinth 10:4). The King of Isaiah’s temple vision was the Son (John 12:40-41).  In this era, he shall assume a new name as, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He has come never to say good night for a moment. The Bible says, Mathew 24:43 “But know this, that if the master of the house had known in what part of the night the thief was coming, he would have stayed awake and would not have let his house be broken into” Matthew 24:43.  In Revelations 16:15, “Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he that watchet and keepeth his garment least he walk naked, and they see his shame.” In 1 Thess 5:2, “For you know very well that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night.” Coming like a thief does not make him a thief; rather it’s a symbolic expression and assertion relating to the manner He will appear. Don’t forget that Christ had said this concerning his second coming, “Then he said to the disciples, the days will come when you will desire to see one of the days of the son of man, and you will not see it. And they will say to you, look here or look there, do not go after them or follow them. For as the lightning that flashes out of one part under heaven shines to the other part under heaven, so also the son of man will be in his day. But first he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation” Luke 17:22-25. Let me use this opportunity to explain this, in his first advent, the symbolic lightning flashed out of one part of the earth, Jerusalem. The lightning flashed in Nazareth and the unborn King-Christ was born, he came and fulfilled his assignment, and ascended into heaven. In his second advent, the lightning again flashed in Africa and is presently shining through Nigeria to the other part of the world heralding the birth of the unborn ancient monarch. This statement re-authenticates the biblical sayings thus, “The kingdom of God will be taken away from you, and given to a nation bearing the fruits of it” Matt. 21:43. What this shows is that God orders events according to time and purpose. Don’t forget that the Bible affirms that he will come as a thief and must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. The good question is, which generation was Christ referring to? Don’t also forget that Christ had on another occasion inferred thus, “Truly I say unto you, this generation shall not pass, till all these things be fulfilled” Matt. 24:34. The question again is which generation is Christ referring to? He was referring to the generation that witnessed the birth of the unborn King of kings and Lord of lords.