…Gives govt 2-week ultimatum By Chukwuma Umeorah  The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN) have threatened to embark on a massive industrial action in two weeks’ time over the refusal of the Federal Government to pay seafarers their entitlements.  The president of the NLC, Joe Ajaero, declaring his support for the union during his visit to the MWUN secretariat in Lagos, urged the leadership of the union to issue a two-week ultimatum to the federal government over the international oil companies’ refusal to obey government’s Marine Notice 106 of 2014 Extant Stevedoring Regulations and refusal to pay aged seafarers their monthly pension despite court ruling.  President of MWUN, Adewale Adeyanju, spoke on challenges facing the union, which include the lack of minimum standard conditions of service for members in the shipping sector as it obtains for the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), dock labour and seafarers.  He pointed out the need to re-awaken the consciousness of dredging of Calabar, Warri, and Port Harcourt ports.  He complained of multiple terminal charges at the ports, adding that NPA had not increased workers’ salaries for over 18 years until recently, but without any known template for the review.  “We need to know the template NPA used to review our salary, since 18 years of stagnation,” he added.  Adeyanju said the union had written to the Ministry of Labour since August 2021 on the clarification, but no action had been taken.  The NLC President, Joe Ajaero in his response noting the relevance of maritime to the nation’s economy, said that issues concerning the interest of workers should be taken seriously.  He expressed disappointment at the government’s handling of the issues while refusing to engage labour in negotiations.   “If it is possible to give them 14 days  ultimatum starting from Monday March 5, 2023 so that they can act fast on the matter because nobody should toy with the issue of workers. NLC is ready to give you solidarity action until they obey the agreement,” he said.  He stressed that the best move was for the union to speak the language the government understands, “The NLC would show no sympathy for any employer who does not have the interest of his workers at heart. We would provide adequate support to the union to shut down the ports.”  “They have acted illegally and they don’t expect somebody to act legally with them. Every illegal action requires an illegal response. What the law requires is for you to give them adequate notice which you have done,” he added.