The Enugu State chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has endorsed the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Peter Mbah, saying the state needed a leader with the capacity to engender economic rebirth, industrialisation, job creation, peace, security and a thriving environment for investments in the state.      He made their position known at the end of an interactive session with Mbah in Enugu, stressing that the entrepreneur’s qualifications and preparedness for the job put him poles ahead of the other candidates.     CAN, therefore, urged the Enugu electorates to vote for proven capacity, competence, character, outstanding track records both in the private sector and public sector, not party or clannish sentiments.    Chairman, Rev. Emmanuel Edeh, commended Mbah for the timely unveiling of his manifesto in October, 2022, unlike some candidates, who aspire to be the governor of a civilised people like Enugu without presenting any manifesto for the people to know their plans if elected and if such plans suits them. He said Mbah’s candidacy held the key to the desired greater future for Enugu, especially given what he was able to achieve in the private sector. “Dr. Peter Mbah is not a stranger to the things he said he would do because he has done them already with evidence and verifiable proofs in the private sector. We want people with proven record outside public office, not people, who have made politics their lifetime career,” he said. Describing Mbah’s governorship aspiration as CAN’s collective project, Rev. Edeh recalled that Mbah had done many laudable projects in the state, including the construction of a state-of-the-art faculty of law auditorium at the Godfrey Okoye University, a Catholic university, in addition to constructing roads, building a modern hospital managed by the catholic church and lifting the youth through scholarships and empowerment programmes of the Peter Mbah Foundation. Also speaking, secretary of the influential Christian body in the state, Rev. Obiora Okeke, who cautioned Enugu people against electing career politicians at this time of economic challenges, extolled Mbah’s entrepreneurial exploits in the private sector, saying that he would do very well with the support of the people. Addressing the gathering earlier, Mbah called on Enugu people to vote for candidates based on competence, character, outstanding records of development, not clannish and party sentiments. He equally warned against electing people, who have no life or business outside politics. “Please, ask anyone soliciting your votes to present their manifestos, programmes, achievements in their previous offices. Ask them what they had been able to do outside politics, the number of jobs they have created, and how they have been able to selflessly touch the lives of the people, especially the less privileged,” Mbah stated. Mbah vowed he would provide water for the people of the state within 180 days of his administration, bring innovation to the socio-economic status of the state, and enable industrialisation, which would create millions of jobs for the youths..