From George Onyejiuwa, Owerri Former Military Administrator of Delta State, Retired Air Commodore Luke Ochulor, has said that the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof Mahmood Yakubu had ignored the concerns of Nigerians because he was afraid for himself. He also said that the steps taken by those who are aggrieved by seeking remedy at the court is commendable. The retired General pointed out that the controversy surrounding the conduct of the Presidential and National elections on February 25 is a clear indication that Nigeria is not making progress democratically. Ochulor noted that since the return of democratic rule in 1999, the conduct of general elections has continued to get worse rather than improve. He said: “I believe that the way we are going we are not making any progress. Those who thought they have won the presidential election are trying to justify it, saying that we can improve on what happened on 25 February. Now, this has been the same logic since 1999 that we will get it right. But it is getting worse. The question is: a student who entered the university since 1999 and has not graduated till now, what type of a student is that?  He spoke further: “The general opinion is that the election was a total failure. In a civilized nation, I had expected the Chairman of INEC to take a blinker and look at what Nigerians were talking about and contacted those that are making the laws and ask them what do we do? Nobody has repository of knowledge. You can make mistake as a human being. I think he was afraid for himself. Professors are supposed to be respected because they are the heads of the citadels of learning and are supposed to live up to the expectations. I think the steps taken by those aggrieved, to court is the best decision. But let there be no violence because in the end it is those who are fighting for Justice that will be killed. We don’t want to lose any life.” However, he urged Judges to restore confidence in the judiciary, being the last hope of the common man by giving justice and judgment. “I am not a lawyer but in recent times there’s been no justice in the Nigeria court system in most of the decisions. But I think the judges will do well to restore that confidence in Nigerians by giving justice and not judgment in matters before them.”