From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja All Progressives Congress (APC) North Central Stakeholders Forum, have demanded that the geopolitical zone should produce the next House of Representatives Speaker in the yet to constituted 10th Assembly few days after announcing Bola Tinubu winner of the poll. They claimed that having delivered four states that aided victory for the ruling party’s presidential candidate, the zone deserves to be rewarded with the Speakership position and other juicy positions. Conveners of the programme, Dominic Alancha, Farida Odangi Sulieman and Mark Hanmation, made the appeal in Abuja at a press conference on Monday. “It is on record that since the 2015, 2019 and now in 2023 respectively the North Central has been flipping APC for victory. Indeed, our region has remained faithful to the ideals of the APC for good course. “The outstanding performance of the North Central region in the 2023 presidential election is a testament to the fact that the region remains the swing zone and any party that the zone flips to is primed to always win election. “It is on record that since the 2015, 2019 and now in 2023 respectively the north central has been flipping APC for victory. Indeed, our region has remained faithful to the ideals of the APC for good course. “It will not be out of place if we as a region call on our great party the APC to and zone the position of the Speaker of the 10th of representatives to the North central given her outstanding performance in the just concluded 2023 general election and for fairness and equity” they demanded. “We use this opportunity to call on all Nigerians to support the in-coming administration of Bola Tinubu for the dawn of renewed hope. Politics is over, it is now time for governance, which is why we also lend our voice to the call on the opposition to accept as he extends a hand of fellowship to them in the interest of peace and our shared interest for the development of Nigeria,” they appealed. Speaking further, the Forum noted: “We cannot thank our leaders in the North Central enough for their guidance, determination, sacrifices and commitment to the Party. They stood against the torrents of attacks with uncommon bravery and determination when the dark forces of retrogression where resolute in eroding the people’s choice. “Here, we remember particularly, the Deputy Speaker House of Representatives, Ahmed Idris Wase, George Akume, Minister of Special Duties and Inter-governmental Affairs, Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, Governors Yahaya Bello, Abubakar Sani Bello, Abdulrahaman Abdulrazaq, National Coordinator Tinubu Shettima Grassroots Independent Campaign Council, Silas Ali Agara, Minister of Environment, Mohammed Abdullahi and other leaders for the financial, moral and logistic support given to us which led to the outstanding performance of the North Central region turning tides against forces bent on erasing the gains of our party in the 2023 presidential election. “The outstanding performance of the North Central region in the 2023 presidential election is a testament to the fact that the region remains the swing zone and any party that the zone flips to is primed to always win election,” he said.