From Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, has said the electoral fortunes of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Saturday’s  governorship election has been boosted with the collapse of the structure of the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) into the PDP in Ahoada East Local Government Area of Rivers State  Wike spoke at a brief reception in Ehuda Town in Ahoada East Local Government Area, where Mr. Eric Apia, formally denounced his membership of the APC.  Until his defection to PDP, Apia was leader of APC in Ahoada East LGA and the party’s House of Representatives candidate for the National Assembly election  on February 25. Wike spoke about the tough political tackles that Apia posed while he held sway as the formidable grassroots leader of the APC. He said such political asset,  is what the PDP had harvested, which marks the eventual death of APC in the area. Wike said the implication was that more votes would be secured for the PDP since all of Apia’s supporters have now pledged their loyalty to PDP and were ready to deliver votes that would make the PDP governorship candidate, Siminialayi Fubara,  win the governorship election. The Rivers governor expressed his delight over the union that made them one political family and assured the PDP would work with Apia for r the development of Ekpeye kingdom and the state in general. The Rivers State governor also announced the award of contract for the 10 kilometer internal roads in Ehuda Town to further enhance the inner aesthetic of the emerging Ahoada city.  Wike said he would send the state’s Commissioner for Works  to work with the leadership of the community in determining the roads to be constructed. The governor assured of awarding the contract for the reconstruction of the Girl’s High School in Ahoada East Local government Area, saying the architectural work had already been completed by his administration. Wike reiterated he does not bear grudge with anyone in the state for voting Peter Obi, presidential candidate of Labour Party or Bola Tinubu of APC because both are southerners and he had been an ardent advocate of power shift to the south.  In his speech, Apia said while he and his supporters were in APC, they held the grassroots voters in firm grip because the people believed in them.  He said now that they have joined the PDP, he and his supporters would  work to deliver votes that will make  Siminialayi Fubara the next governor of Rivers State.