… Says governorship candidates in the zone deserve same support From Noah Ebije, Kaduna  Barely 24 hours after the presidential candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu was declared winner in last Saturday election, the Spokesman, North West APC Presidential campaign council, Muhammad Shehu Molash said the zone was the strongest backbone that gave Tinubu victory. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Molash disclosed that North West produced  the cumulative votes of 2,950,393 out of the 8,794,726 votes casted in  the entire county for Tinubu. He said the votes represented about 33.55% of the entire votes casted in favour of the President-elect, even as he added that all governorship candidates in the zone should be accorded similar support during the forthcoming election. “The North West APC Presidential campaign council under the able leadership of the zonal Coodinator, Governor Bello Matawalle and his deputy, Salihu Lukman wishes to express their most profound gratitude to all those who contributed immensely towards the success of the APC in the just concluded 2023 Presidential elections. “That the North West zone gave the cumulative votes of 2,950,393 out of the 8,794,726 votes casted in  the entire county for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Kashim Shettima,is a vindication of our earlier convictions,that the North West geo-political zone is the strongest stronghold of the APC in Nigeria.For the records, 2,950,393 votes represents about 33.55% of the entire votes casted in favour of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his Vice,Kashim Shettima in the whole of Nigeria.  “The massive votes recorded,despite the hurdles and conspiracies within and outside the zone,is a clear testament to the mass appeal that the greatest politician of our time,enjoys in the zone!  We equally wish to specially acknowledge the tenancity and doggednees of the 6 APC governors,despite the stiff attempt to whip up ethnic sentiments by some supposedly elders from the zone.Thankfully,the zone rejected the antics of these “Atiku’s elders” masquerading as Northern elders!  “In the light of the foregoing,the North West APC Presidential campaign office,wishes to appeal to all the people of the zone to come out enmasse and vote for all APC gubernatorial candidates in the zone,on the 11th of March 2023 in sha Allah.  “The APC in the zone,parades the best out of all the gubernatorial candidates of other parties. Unarguably, Senator Uba Sani is the best out of all those angling to succeed Gov Elrufai in Kaduna state, given his track records in the Nigeria’s senate; Dr Nasiru Gawuna remains the most qualified person to succeed Gov Ganduje given his experience and humility; Dr Dikko Radda is also adjudged to be far better in all ramifications than the barely literate Lado Dan Marke of the PDP; Gov Bello Matawalle’s ability to navigate through the age-long banditry in the state, points to his suitability for a second term in office,as the state also bids farewell to farmers-hearders conflicts,courtesy of Gov Matawalle’s peace initiative.  “It is also the same standard in the other North West states such as Sokoto,Kebbi and Jigawa. Let us also consolidate on Asiwaju/Shettima’s victory by electing all APC’s candidates in the gubernatorial and state assembly elections come MARCH 11TH 2023 in sha Allah”. The Spokesman said. END.