From Paul Osuyi, Asaba The Delta State Government has described the allegation of a N850 billion loan raised by the opposition All Progressive Congress (APC) as another lie from the pit of hell. The government challenged the APC to provide the names of the banks that lent the money and when it was borrowed. This was contained in a statement issued in Asaba on Sunday by the state Commissioner for Information, Charles Aniagwu, in reaction to a series of allegations raised by the main opposition party. Aniagwu stated that the concessioning of Asaba Airport remained one of the best decisions of the Okowa administration because the airport is doing better than it was before the concession. “The uninformed APC would have wanted us to run the airport with state funds with no expertise. “In line with global best practices, experts in the aviation field who are not in any way related to the Governor are running the airport and they also confirmed that they never met the governor throughout the negotiations. “We, therefore, urge Deltans to ignore the calculated attempts by the APC to demonise our party even as we remain ever committed to ensure that our governorship candidate, Rt. Hon Sheriff Oborevwori and candidates of our party in the state House of Assembly emerge victorious in the March 11 Governorship and House of Assembly polls,” he stated. The statement titled: ‘Delta APC’s desperation and penchant for unbridled propaganda’ stated that the government was “inundated by series of mendacious propaganda and barefaced lies churned out on daily basis by the opposition APC in Delta State. “Recall that we did inform the general public about the agenda of the APC and its Governorship Candidate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege’s plots to engage in a campaign of calumny and massive deployment of propaganda attacks on the Senator Dr Ifeanyi Okowa-led administration even when the Governor is not in the ballot with him. “As a government and as a political party, we have refrained from engaging in likewise manner because we believe that we are not just decent people but because we have enormous achievements in the state to campaign with.”