From Scholastica Onyeka, Makurdi The leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), in Benue State has rejected the outcome of the Presidential and National Assembly elections held in the state on February 25th, 2023. The party has mandated its legal Legal Department to approach the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal and the National Assembly Elections Petitions Tribunal, both sitting in Makurdi, to challenge the results of the elections in some local government areas as returned and announced by INEC.  Acting State Chairman PDP, Mr. Isaac Mffo, disclosed this on Friday, while briefing newsmen at the party Secretariat in Makurdi. Recall that the party, shortly after the elections, mandated its Legal Department to study reports received from its agents from polling units across the state. Mffo said after due consideration of the findings of the Legal Department, the party finds that the process of conducting both the Presidential and National Assembly elections in Benue State did not conform with the standards stipulated in the enabling laws for the exercise. The party said “the provisions of the Electoral Act (2022 As Amended) in Sections 60 (5) and 148 which empower the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to make guidelines for the conduct of the elections were grossly violated.  “We consider it a matter of grave concern that Clauses 38 and 93 of the INEC Regulations and Guidelines for the Conduct of Election, 2022, which make mandatory the transmission of election results electronically from the polling units to the INEC Server were serially flouted.” The party said the above identified breaches of extant laws raise a fundamental issue of non-compliance with provisions of the Electoral Act, a situation which impinges negatively on the credibility of the election.  “Consequently, PDP in Benue State rejects the outcome of both the Presidential and National Assembly elections held in certain local government areas of Benue State on 25th February, 2023, for the reason of the breaches of law cited above.  “Our great party calls for the cancellation of the results returned from those local government areas and has duly forwarded a Letter of Protest to INEC to that effect.”  Mffo said their decision is borne of belief in the sanctity of the electoral process as the sole avenue through which the people may recruit and mandate those to govern over their affairs in the quest for peace, security and prosperity. The party also flayed renewed attacks on rural communities across Benue State in Kwande, Logo, Guma, Gwer-West and Agatu local government areas by suspected herdsmen which have resulted in loss of lives, and property. The party expressed fear that the attacks, if not halted by security forces, will further worsen the problem of low voters turnout at the coming Governorship and State Assembly elections slated to hold on 11th March, 2023 across the state.  They called on Muhammadu Buhari led federal government to rise up to its responsibility by deploying security agents to protect the lives and properties of Benue people from the herdsmen. The party also debunked the rumours that its Governorship Candidate, Titus Uba, has stepped down from the March 11th, 2023 gubernatorial election saying it’s a lie fabricated by jittery agents of opposition political parties who are afraid of facing Uba at the coming polls. He called on the Benue public to disregarded in totality as he candidate is not just still in the race but “far ahead in the lead and most favoured to win and succeed Governor Samuel Ortom at the People’s House, Makurdi come May 29th, 2023.”