From Sola Ojo, Kaduna  The Concerned Northern Forum (CNF) on Friday said the northern region was pleased with the victory of Bola Ahmed Tinubu as President-elect in the  February 25 presidential election in the country. The Forum also commended the leadership of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) under Prof. Mahmood Yakubu for conducting what it called the “most credible and transparent elections”. Addressing newsmen at the popular Arewa House Kaduna on Friday, spokesperson of  CNF, Abdulsalam Moh’d Kazeem said: “As northerners, we are pleased with his victory and without being selfish, want to identify and work with him when he’s eventually sworn in on the 29th of May, 2023 ‘Inshallah’.  “The fact that Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, a Northerner contested with Bola Tinubu under the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and lost does not mean we should join other undemocratic groups and networks in the country to condemn and discredit one of the most credible elections in the history of Nigeria.  “We are more concerned with the progress of Nigeria and with Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a new Nigeria is possible.  “We also want to salute the courage and integrity of the Chairman, INEC, Prof Mahmood Yakubu for making history and delivering an impeccable election despite the aggressive work of saboteurs and enemies of democracy in Nigeria. “What Prof. Mahmood Yakubu has done by maneuvering through all the hurdles and giving a worthy election deserves commendations and not condemnation.  “Despite widespread fears bordering on insecurity and kidnappings and against the judgment of many analysts that elections will not hold in many parts of the country, INEC under Mahmood Yakubu delivered a world-class election all over the country including flashpoints of violent extremism and terrorism such as Borno and Zamfara states.  “Secondly, the naira redesign and fiscal policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria came at a time when INEC was putting finishing touches to its preparations. One needs not be told that most of INECs activities including training and logistics are money based.  “Still, INEC went ahead and surmounted these challenges without shifting the date of the elections. Disregarding these giant strides and concentrating on very insignificant events is unpatriotic and diversionary.”