From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja  President Muhammadu Buhari Friday in Daura, Katsina State, praised the Armed Forces for their patriotic role in maintaining law and order during the recently concluded Presidential and National Assembly elections, assuring that Nigerians would continue to value the sacrifices they have made. According to a statement by Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, President Buhari, gave the commendation while virtually commissioning 700 Ashok Leyland Troop Carrying Vehicles assembled in Lagos, from his country home, pledging more support for the welfare of the military, adding that their “labour will not be in vain’. The President said the war against terrorism and criminality in the country will be sustained, and boosted with supplies of hardware and better care for the security outfits.   “Moving forward,” he said, “I charge you to consolidate on the gains we have achieved, towards sustaining the peace and stability of the country. “Let me firmly assure Nigerians that the Federal Government remains steadfast and committed to winning the war against insurgency and other criminalities. Surely, the Federal Government will not rest on its oars until Nigeria and indeed Nigerians both at home and in the diaspora are free from the menace of terrorism and other forms of harm,” he said.  President Buhari noted that the vehicles would increase the capability of the Armed Forces, especially their combat efficiency levels. “I am pleased to be invited here today as the Special Guest of honour at the commissioning of the 700 Ashok Leyland Troops Carrying Vehicles, procured by the Federal Government of Nigeria. These vehicles, I understand, were assembled by Stallion Motors Limited at Ojo, Lagos.  “This is an important milestone in the annals of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, especially the troops engaged in operation in various theatres. This demonstrates the commitment and importance the Federal Government attaches to the fight against insurgency, criminalities and welfare of personnel,” he noted.  President Buhari said the activities of non-state actors and transnational criminals had impacted the overall security architecture of the nation, noting that the threats were not peculiar to Nigeria.