Leicester City great, Emile Heskey has backed Kelechi Iheanacho to bounce back from his costly misses against Southampton. Iheanacho put two headers wide and a further chance over the bar as the Foxes lost 1-0 to the team at the bottom of the Premier League. Gary Lineker and Ian Wright were dumbfounded by the misses on Match of the Day with Harry Souttar also planting a header against the crossbar. “Leicester only had themselves to blame. So profligate in front of goal,” Lineker said. To which Wright went into further detail on the missed chances, saying he could not be a manager if players missed such clear chances in his team. “You can’t miss the chances I saw today. This header, I don’t know what to say. It’s such a poor header. The next one, just head it back where it came from. “This one, along the ground, curls it into the goalkeeper’s right corner. The last one from Maddison’s cross – he was brilliant today – I couldn’t be a manager seeing a miss like that from Souttar. I don’t know how Brendan can be so calm in his interview. “For you to be missing chances like that, you deserve to lose games.” While it was a disappointing day for Iheancho, Heskey was swift to point out the good form the former Manchester City striker has been in since coming back into the side. Speaking on Sky Sports, Heskey said: “We created a few chances. With a bit more composure and being a bit more clinical, Kelechi could’ve had a couple of goals today. That gives you a little bit of confidence. They’ve got to keep going, they’ve got to have belief, because you can lose that belief very quickly when you’re down there. Winning is a habit but so is losing.” “He’s got three goals in six (league) games I think, plus three assists as well, so he’s not doing too bad and he’s creating chances. I just think today was just an off day for him, especially the one where he bends it with his left foot, they usually go in the back of the net and today just wasn’t a good day for him.” Defeat leaves Leicester 15th in the table, three points above the relegation zone.