By Chukwudi Nweje Ahead of the march 11, 2023 governorship election, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has vowed that he would improve on his development revolution in the state if he wins a second term in office.  He stated that the development of social infrastructure like schools, improvement of classrooms, training and retraining of teachers and deployment of modern learning devices in public schools have culminated in the construction of over 1,000 schools in the state in the last three and half years. He said his administration has founded two additional universities ― one Universities for Education, and a University of Science and Technology― to expand access and increase specialised expertise. Sanwo-Olu stated this during an interactive session with editors recently in Ikeja, where he was represented by his aide on Public Relations and New Media, Mr Segun Fafore. He noted that new infrastructural development is a sure path to catapulting Lagos State to higher pedestal among the comity of nations. He noted that apart from the free education at the primary and secondary schools in the state, tertiary institutions in the state charge the least tuition compared to other states of the country.  “New infrastructural development is a sure path to catapulting Lagos State to a higher pedestal among the comity of nations. “Projects like the railway, which includes the blue line that was commissioned last month by President Muhammadu Buhari and undergoing testing, the red line which will soon be ready and others are testaments to the foresight of Gov Sanwo-Olu’s predecessors and his determination to deliver them on time for the use of the people,” Fafore said. Fafore said that apart from the manner in which the Sanwo-Olu –led administration tackled the COVID-19 pandemic that the health sector in the state has witnessed tremendous improvement. “The children’s hospital under construction in Lagos Island, General hospitals under construction or those fully renovated have helped to expand access to healthcare services across the state. “The THEMES Agenda, which guides the administration’s policy framework, has been pursued diligently in the past three and half years.  “THEMES, the agenda for Greater Lagos, represents the six-pillar development plan of the Sanwo-Olu administration. It stands for Traffic Management and Transportation; Health and Environment; Education and Technology; making Lagos a 21st Century Economy; Entertainment and Tourism; and Security and Governance.” On transportation, Fafore noted: “Apart from the success recorded in the rail sector, the administration expanded the Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) system by opening new routes. It also expanded water transportation with the construction of new jetties and deployment of more LagFerries. This has helped communities around the Lagoon like Ikorodu commute seamlessly. “The launch of cheaper, cleaner LagRide, a car hailing service that has revolutionised transportation in Lagos.” On the smart city project, Fafore said: “In terms of technology, we are all from different parts of Lagos State and we would have seen the internet cables that are being laid across the City. “Today, these things are already connected to power supply, hospitals and some homes. The essence of that is that the people who started using internet, particularly our generation, I’m not sure if anybody in this room, has at the point the person was leaving the university had the benefit of anything like that. “ I’m sure that we would have forgotten what light was then. I’m not sure that any of us here can live without the internet because without the internet, you will feel that something is wrong. And when we have quality and better speed from that sector, there must be a thousand and one things you will do. “In healthcare, waste management, in arts and tourism and all that the city around us has made tremendous progress. If you saw Lagos before 1999 and now; we have monitored progress across all stages. I’m not sure there’s anybody who can deny the fact that this is a governor that is really working very hard in moving strategically with the times. He is committed to serving the state and he’s confronting many challenges”.