From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja  The Tinubu-Shettima Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) has said that former President Olusegun Obasanjo lacks moral right to meddle into last Saturday’s presidential election let alone calling for its cancellation. The APC PCC argued that having been an interested party after publicly, on January 1, endorsed LP candidate, Peter Obi, Obasanjo lacked the rectitude to make such demands.  Reading a prepared text,  Special Adviser, Media, Public Affairs and Strategic Communication of the PCC, Dele Alake,  also warned that it is not in 1993 when June 12 was aborted by similar forces, emphasising that it is too late to do so. The APC PCC warned the gathering anti-democratic forces that they have the strength, the determination and the will to protect and defend the process and the soon-to-be-formally announced mandate freely given to APC presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu and running mate, Kashim Shettima.  “Obasanjo literally called for the cancellation of last Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections. His call was anchored on the unsubstantiated claims, rumours and allegations of fraud by opposition parties led by PDP and LP, who having seen that they have lost the election would rather want our hard won democracy to be truncated on the altar of their lies. “You must also be aware of the gang up by the PDP and LP, whose agents walked out of the National Collation Centre in Abuja on Monday. Today, they  continued their conspiracy to truncate our 24 year democratic journey by raising unfounded allegations against INEC, casting aspersions on the whole electoral process, forgetting the process had handed them unexpected victories in some states. “We have always suspected that LP and PDP are the same, only divided by individual inordinate ambition. We want to remind them that election is a process like pregnancy. Like a pregnancy that has reached full term, it cannot be aborted. “We are not in 1993 when June 12 was aborted by similar forces. It is too late to do so. The APC-PCC wants to say emphatically that former President Obasanjo has no moral right to meddle in this election let alone calling for its cancellation because he is an interested party having publicly, on January 1 this year, endorsed the candidate of LP Peter Obi,” the PCC noted. Speaking further the jubilant APC PCC, said that; “although we stand by our position as stated on Monday not to jump the protocol governing the announcement of the election results and allow Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to perform its constitutional duty, we want to tell the gathering anti-democratic forces that we have the strength, the determination and the will to protect and defend this process and the soon-to-be-formally announced mandate freely given to our party and presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu and running mate, Kashim Shettima. “We are very well aware of the plan of the PDP and their LP collaborators to heighten tension in the country and create general state of fear through their sponsored television and radio surrogates who continue to push false narratives about the general conduct of the election. We are also aware of the coordinated assault aimed at discrediting the whole electoral process and the integrity of INEC by their so-called paid and partisan agents who wear the toga of Election Observers. “We consider Obasanjo’s failed attempt to scuttle the process through his unsolicited advice to President Muhammadu Buhari to cancel the election as part of the grand orchestration of many evil plots to truncate democracy in Nigeria. “The integrity of the electoral process has been attested to by the international observers such as the Commonwealth, ECOWAS, European Union and African Union observer missions who adjudged the election as peaceful, free and fair whilst they identified areas of logistical improvements INEC should take into consideration in future elections. As you are well aware, the election was replete with drama. “We saw the APC presidential candidate, party chairman and PCC director-general, losing their home states to Labour Party. Our DG also lost his bid to the Senate.We have also seen how Governor Samuel Ortom, a LP backer lost his state of Benue to the APC. He also lost his bid to the Senate to the APC candidate. The Benue APC Tsunami was triggered by our popular governorship candidate, Father Hyacinth Alia and the party leader, George Akume,” Alake noted.