•As Nigerians again go to the polls next Saturday to elect governors in many of the 36 states, Saturday Sun recalls some of the promises made to the electorate by the top contenders  On Saturday, March 11 2023, Nigerians will once again troop out in their numbers in many states across the country to vote for the next governor in their state. It is also Election Day for House of Assembly contestants. In this report, our correspondents from different states recall some of the promises made by the major governorship candidates to the electorate.  ENUGU In Enugu State, the governorship contest is largely seen as a three-horse race involving Chijioke Edeoga of Labour Party, Peter Mbah of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Frank Nweke Jnr of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, according to The Sun’s Magnus Eze. Labour Party’s candidate, Edeoga promised to reduce the cost of governance, revive ailing industries in the state, tackle waste disposal, and turn waste to wealth. Peter Mbah pledged to grow the state economy from the current $4.4 billion to $30 billion in eight years, ensure  “made-in-Enugu” products serve both domestic and foreign markets, address the problem of unemployment, eradicate poverty, and also create opportunities for investors. APGA’s Frank Nweke  itemized the seven core areas of his social contract with Ndi-Enugu. These include economic transformation, human capital development, security, environmental sustainability, governance, leadership and technology, with clear cut strategies for funding and implementing the plan.. EBONYI In Ebonyi, the race is also a three-horse one involving Francis Nwifuru of the All Progressives Congress (APC),  Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii (PDP) and Bernard Odoh of APGA. Chijioke Agwu reports that APC’s Nwifuru has pledged to “make Ebonyi people happy and create employment opportunities for youths and women. I will make the environment very conducive for business to thrive and to run an all-inclusive governance,”  Odoh of PDP promised to priortise education, while Odii has promised to create wealth, diversify the economy and upscale human empowerment. ABIA Those seen as major contenders in Abia are Alex Otti of Labour Party, Okey Ahiwe of PDP, Enyinnaya Chima Nwafor (YPP) and Mascot Uzor Kalu (APP).  Alex Otti pledged to do away with security vote, serve Abia free of charge without taking salary, pursue industrialization, quality education and agricultural policies to reduce rural –urban migration. Ahiwe of PDP said he would turn the entire state around, build on the policies of the outgoing administration and involve more youths and women in governance.  On his part, Mascot Kalu of APP said he would turn Abia around for good, drive investment and give opportunities to young people.    On his own part, Nwafor has pledged to make Abia an investment destination, among other promises. BORNO The governorship race in Borno is between Governor Babagana Zulum of the APC and PDP’s Mohammed Jajeri, reports Timothy Olanrewaju.  Governor Zulum has done well in roads construction, hospital and others and has promised to sustain same.  Jajeri of PDP is promising job creation, investment in agriculture and opening up of other sources of revenue for the development of infrastructure.  TARABA The battle seems to be between Mr Kefas Agbu of the PDP and Senator Emmanuel Bwacha of the APC, according to The Sun’s Sylvanus Viashima in Jalingo. Agbu’s main focus will be to build on the foundation already laid by the current Governor Darius Ishaku’s administration in the state and continue with the rescue mission. He believes that with his background in the military and his youthfulness, he is in a better position to tackle issues of insecurity and youth restiveness by encouraging entrepreneurial prowess and ingenuity of the youth and harnessing their potentials for wealth creation. Senator Emmanuel Bwacha of the APC believes that the rescue mission is a colossal failure that needs to be rescued. Consequently, Bwacha anchors his blueprint on harnessing state human and natural resources and potential, thus creating wealth engagement especially for the youth as a panacea to youth restiveness and unemployment. He has also promised reforms in the civil service to make it a more productive and rewarding service. He said issues of insecurity, communal clashes, labour union grievances and all other forms of agitations wil be tackled through dialogue. PLATEAU Bere Gyang reports that in Plateau State, the three contending governorship candidates under the platforms of the PDP, APC and LP have placed security of lives and property and economy recovery as topmost priorities in their manifestos due to the prolonged violence that rocked the state for over a decade. For the PDP candidate, Caleb Mutfwang, his seven- point agenda has security, economy, education, health, agriculture, Local Government Administration among other sectors as topmost priorities. “The restorative plan is embedded in a 7-point Agenda: Peace and Security. This is at the top of all priorities because it is the enabler of every development. The plan outlines a multi-faceted approach to defending and securing the state. These include: Operation Rainbow framework; Community empowerment and vigilance. The Economy plans propose a creative, resourceful and sustainable approach to agriculture,  tourism, solid minerals development, commerce and sports development,” he said. The APC candidate, Dr. Nentawe Yilwatda has also prioritized peace and security, education, economy, health and tourism among other sector of the economy as his topmost priority if given the mandate. He noted: “We would engage those in diaspora in creating markets abroad for the state’s agricultural products and mineral resources from Plateau state, dredge the Kurra Waterfalls as well as develop the new falls sites in Kwall and that of Pankshin South for adequate power supply to attract investors and galvanise the over 50 cultural festivals in the state to attract tourists, among others.” Labour Party’s candidate, Dr. Patrick Dakum, in his manifesto, also placed priority on peace and security, health, economic, agriculture as well as looking into the issues of women, youths and people with disability by providing quality leadership that will enthrone sanity and dignity of Plateau people. “We will start by strengthening the first responders, that is the vigilante groups, hunters association and the traditional institutions. We will use security vote to strengthen the system while we wait for other Nigerian security forces to go up so that together we can secure our state,” he promised. LAGOS In Lagos, Lukman Olabiyi, Sunday Ani and Chukwudi Nweje report that two candidates – PDP’s Abdul-Azeez Olajide Adediran of PDP and LP’s Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour are the two major opponents to APC’s Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the current governor of Lagos State. Sanwo-Olu said he is optimistic of winning his re-election because of his performance in office in the past three and half years. He believes his achievements, experience and track record will speak for him at the forthcoming gubernatorial election in the state. He stated that his administration has repositioned Lagos from what it used to be under the previous administration. “And we have grown the city from what it used to be three to four years ago before we took over. Now it receives the highest foreign direct investments because the environment is safe and secured,” he said. PDP’s Olajide Adediran says he would turn the state around by focusing on freeing the state from servitude; empowerment of the residents by running a masses-oriented government; providing qualitative free education, and job creation; and creating equal opportunities for all. Adediran noted that his administration would set up empowerment schemes across the senatorial zones in the state to tackle poverty and unemployment. He has promised free, qualitative compulsory education across the state to check the rising out-of-school children in Lagos, and the menace of area boys. He also promises a Lagos that works for all and free from discrimination and harassment of non-indigenes, especially across markets in the state. He says, “The people of Lagos State have been in servitude for years because some politicians deceived them in the past and failed to deliver on the promises made to them. “We would set up empowerment centres across the state for women and people who are unemployed. Through this we can fight poverty. We would create technology innovation hubs where youths would be trained and empowered. The Labour Party (LP) candidate, Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour, prides himself as the architect of a new Lagos. He has mapped programmes and plans to inject a fresh air into what he called toxic environment, where enslavement through money politics has reigned for decades.  Some of his cardinal plans for Lagos are in the areas of health, education, housing and transport among others. He has promised to put an end to what he called the perennial culture of using the state’s funds to service a particular family at the expense of millions of Lagos citizens. He equally has plans to incentivise businesses in Lagos to increase employment and job creation. This, he said, was to address what currently obtains in Lagos where residents are overtaxed leading to so many businesses folding up. In one of his numerous speeches about his plans for Lagos, he said: “My priority areas in the first 100 days would be on urban planning renewal of the state. This would be tied into the transport system and housing. I would also focus on education and healthcare and incentivising growth in relation to companies and businesses. I would look at the comparative advantages of the different local governments and incentivise companies to set up youths in those local governments, who would be trained for free to acquire skills so that they would be employable because the employability skills set of our people is low.  Rhodes-Vivour has equally promised to end police brutality in Lagos if elected governor of the state. He said his government would create a systematic framework that would enable his government to monitor all forms of irregularities in the realm of people’s affairs. OGUN In Ogun, three top contenders would be gunning to clinch the coveted position of the number one citizen of the state, reports Laide Raheem. These contenders include the incumbent governor, Dapo Abiodun, who is flying the flag of the ruling party, APC; Oladipupo Adebutu of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Biyi Otegbeye of the African Democratic Congress (ADC). The trio have embarked on campaigns to tell Ogun people what they have in stock for them. For Dapo Abiodun of the APC, he has been telling the electorate that he would continue to implement his ISEYA Agenda, which according to him, had repositioned Ogun for economic prosperity and infrastructural development. On his part, Ladi Adebutu of the PDP, promised to work assiduously and end the incessant farmers/herders clashes, particularly, in the Ogun West axis of the state. He also harped on local government autonomy and establishment of border communities development agency, if elected as governor. ADC governorship candidate, Otegbeye, in his campaigns, promised to look into the infrastructure decay, reinstate the sacked 75 coronet traditional rulers installed by the immediate past governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, as well as continuing with the projects of the former governor. NASARAWA  Among the top contenders for the governorship race in Nasarawa are the incumbent Governor Abdullahi Sule of APC; David Emmanuel Ombugadu of PDP and Abubakar Maidoya of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), according to Abel Leonard.  Governor Sule said his goal has always been to industrialise Nasarawa, as it has the potential to create job opportunities and boost the economy of the state. However, achieving this goal, he said, would require a clear plan and effective implementation. If he is re-elected in March 11, 2023, Governor Sule said he would take concrete steps to attracte more investors to the state by creating a favourable business environment, provide incentives to investors, and promote the state’s potential in various industries. Governor Sule said he would also focus on developing the state’s infrastructure, such as roads, electricity, and water supply, which are essential for attracting and sustaining investments. David Emmanuel Ombugadu of the PDP, in his manifesto said he has a one point agenda to put smiles on the faces of the Nasarawa people, stating that he would create jobs and reduce youth restiveness. If elected, David Emmanuel Ombugadu said he would focus on creating an enabling environment for businesses to thrive. This would involve providing basic infrastructure such as good roads, stable electricity supply, and a good security system.  In the manifesto of the NNPP, Abubakar Maidoya, a businessman and the governorship candidate in Nasarawa State, said he would invest in education, making it free for people to access. If elected, Abdullahi Yakubu  Maidoya has enumerated his plans on how he intends to fund the free education policy and ensure that it is sustainable in the long run. This he said would involve increasing the budget allocation for education and seeking partnerships with international organizations and private sector companies to provide funding for the programme. AKWA IBOM There are more than 12 governorship candidates in Akwa Ibom State, but only very few can be said to be serious contenders to the mandate, reports Joe Effiong. Among the serious contenders is Pastor Umo Eno of the PDP and the Young Progressives Party candidate, Senator Bassey Albert. Eno is campaigning on the ARISE Agenda, which stands for Agricultural Revolution, Rural Development, Infrastructural Maintenance/Advancement, Security Management, and Educational Advancement. According to him, the agenda is a contract to create jobs for the people and enlarge the path for economic prosperity; to maintain and advance world class infrastructure; ensure food security through the agricultural revolution’ stem rural-urban migration through robust investments in rural development to ensure that the people continue to live in peace and the sanctity of the human life would be protected through proper security management. On his part, the YPP candidate, Sen Bassey Albert, has revealed five strategic pillars of his government wrapped around Economic Prosperity and Infrastructural Renaissance. The details of this will include provision of N150b Prosperity Trust Fund for entrepreneurs; empowering women through co-operatives, tax reduction and elimination of multiple taxing of small businesses, development of deep sea port, and reform of the state civil service to ensure efficiency and productivity. The APC is still battling to know who is their candidate between Sen Ita Enang and Mr Akan Udofia as both men are still in court to justify their claim to being the candidate, doing little in terms of campaigns and manifestoes.  BAUCHI Bala Mohammed, the Bauchi State governor, is running for a second term on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), reports Paul Orude. He is credited with excellent infrastructural development across the state, which was a promise he made in 2019 during the campaign. But he failed to fulfil his campaign to the civil servants on the issue of improved allowances. The pensioners also didn’t have it as he promised. Governor Mohammed has apologised for not being able to fulfil the promise he made to civil servants and pensioners. He asked for forgiveness and promise they will have a better deal in his second tenure. He has also made new promises as he hopes to be re-elected. Mohammed has assured that his administration will consolidate on the provision of infrastructures, social amenities and human capital development if re-elected for the second term. The governor said that since he assumed office, the policy thrust of his administration was towards the provision of improved basic health care and education, water supply, sanitation and hygiene, and infrastructural development. Mohammed also promised not to interfere or try to manipulate the electoral process in any way. He directed the traditional leaders to give a welcome reception to the opposition parties. He promised to create an Emirate in Dambam by elevating  Dambam district head to that of first class ruler if elected. He promised to build a Sesame industry in Zaki and Gamawa and roads to ease the problem of transporting farm produce from farms to markets in parts of the state.  The major challenger of Governor Bala Mohammed, the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bauchi State is Air Marshal Sadique Baba Abubakar (rtd). He has also made campaign promises. He said he is in the race to change the negative narrative in the state by ensuring that he ends hunger and poverty, provide job opportunities, improve security and empower the people of the state. Abubakar also promised to ensure that Bauchi State has a functional educational system that would provide equal opportunity for everyone to be educated and not based on those who have the resources to afford it. He promised to dismantle the system that failed to improve the living conditions of the people. APC candidate stated that the only way to have a secured society is to eliminate hindrances that stop people from accessing education. He promised to make health care support available to the citizens, not only in hospitals, but also to the people at the grassroots through the support of a team of medical experts. DELTA  The stakes are high in Delta State as voters in the oil rich state step out on March 11 to elect a new governor from the array of candidates who have put themselves forward in their political parties for election. Among the candidates are three believed to be front liners in the race to Dennis Osadabey House in Asaba, reports Paul Osuyi. They have outlined their programmes which they have put out for Deltans to scrutinise and assist in making informed choice. Based on individual pedigree of the candidates and political party structure, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Sheriff Oborevwori; All Progressive Congress (APC) candidate, Ovie Omo-Agege; and Social Democratic Party (SDP) candidate, Kenneth Gbagi appear to be the three leading candidates. Barring any unforeseen circumstances, it would be a three-horse race. However, there is a possibility that the candidate of Labour Party (LP), Kennedy Pela and that of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), Great Ogboru, are capable of springing surprises when the chips are down. Sheriff Oborevwori (PDP) is the current Speaker of the state House of Assembly, a position he has held for the past five years, making him the longest serving Speaker since the state was created. Oborevwori was elected into the House to represent Okpe in 2015 before being elevated to the Speakership position following the impeachment of Monday Igbuya in 2017. As the head of the legislature, he complimented the executive in steering the ship of state.  As the governorship candidate of the ruling party, Oborevwori has promised to build on the successes of the outgoing Governor Ifeanyi Okowa administration with his MORE Agenda which stands for Meaningful development; Opportunities for all; Realistic reforms; Enhanced peace and security. A peep into the MORE agenda reveals Oborevwori’s promise to deepen economic, infrastructural, human capital and environmental development. He also promised to be fair and equitable in running an all inclusive government with the engagement of critical stakeholders, if elected. His envisaged reforms cover the areas of state finances; industrialisation/micro, small, medium enterprises; agriculture; investment; and public service delivery. In the area of security, Oborevwori, if elected, promised to promote community policing; engage youths in productive employment; robustly engage traditional institutions; and collaborate with security agencies to maintain law and order. With a deep sense of belief that the PDP has not done well in the past 24 years, the APC candidate Ovie Omo-Agege is making case for a new state with his vision to Build A New Delta (BAND) as encapsulated in four broad areas code-named E.D.G.E meaning Employment and empowerment; Development; Good Governance; and Enduring peace and security. The current Deputy Senate President who said the 2023 governorship election is a watershed, promised to be responsive and sensitive to the yearnings and aspirations of the people, if elected. Omo-Agege, in his written manifesto, pledged to build a new Delta with modernised and expanded infrastructure including affordable, accessible and quality education and healthcare which he said, are foundations for economic growth. In his separate engagements with critical stakeholders, including retirees and civil servants, Omo-Agege promised to clear pension arrears and promotion arrears that he would inherit within six months of his administration, if elected.  Kenneth Gbagi (SDP), a former Minister of State for Education, is one of the earliest aspirants to have indicated interest in the top job, and has kept his eyes on the goal. A lawyer and criminologist, Gbagi prides himself as the largest private employer of labour in the state. Although his development blueprint is not readily available, Gbagi, at different fora, promised to industrialise the state by reviving moribund industries and establishing new ones to create jobs for the army of unemployed youths. In his first 100 days as governor, if elected, Gbagi vowed to establish 100 new industries across the state. Gbagi, like Omo-Agege, believes that the PDP-led government has plunged the state into debts through borrowing. He, however did not fault the need to borrow, and promised to clear whatever debts he might inherit within a short time. BENUE In Benue State, Scholastica Onyeka reports the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Mr Titus Uba, had long unveiled his blueprint christened “Soil as Our Oil,” in which he promised to secure Benue and boost the economy through agriculture. His media aide, Wuese Orshi who noted that the blueprint is anchored on two main sectors Security And Agriculture said “Security is going to be his major focus while his economic drive will be agriculture, meaning he will focus on agriculture after securing the state and then through agricultural mechanisation, the state will be economically viable, then what will be gotten from there will be used to finance other sectors like health, education among others.” The governorship candidate of the APC, Rev Hyacinth Alia in a policy document christened “A Strategic Development Plan for a Greater Benue”,  also promised “Security of Lives and Property, Agriculture and Rural Development, Commerce and Industry, Human Capital and Social Development, Infrastructure and Environment, Information and  Communications Technology, (ICT), as well as Political and Economic Governance. Meanwhile, the Labour party candidate, Herman Hembe said right at the swearing in venue, he will announce the scrapping of Bureau of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs which will signal the commencement of complete and total autonomy to the Local Government system in the state.  He said: “Local Government Service Commission will also be scrapped. Local Governments will have their monies sent to them from the Federation Account directly and only remit to the state its dues concerning joint projects and agreements. Local Governments staff list will be printed and pasted on the walls of the LG Secretariat so that the real wage bill of the state will be known.” He also promised to return development to the people, prioritise internally generated revenue (IGR) for effective running of government and ensure prompt payment of salaries, wages and pension if elected. KADUNA Although there are over 15 governorship candidates of various political parties in Kaduna State, all eyes are on two major contenders, reports Noah Ebije. The two major contenders are Senator Uba Sani of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Mohammed Isa Ashiru  of the Peoples Democratic (PDP). They are not leaving any stone unturned in their respective moves to win the election, just as the contest promises to be fierce and interesting. Senator Uba Sani of the APC, a serving Senator representing Kaduna Central Senatorial Zone, is currently enjoying the toga of the anointed candidate of the outgoing governor, Nasir El-Rufai. He accepted to go with El-Rufai’s Muslim-Muslim ticket introduced in 2019 by picking the current deputy governor of the state, Dr. Hadiza Balarabe, as his running mate. Sani promised to create jobs, tackle insecurity in accordance with his manifesto which is based on a seven-point agenda aimed at improving the lives of the citizens. This includes strengthening safety and security; upgrading of infrastructure, strengthening institutions, and enhance trade and investments. Mohammed Isa Ashiru, the PDP candidate, is contesting for the governorship race for the third time.  A two-term former member of the state House of Assembly and later two term member of House of Representatives, Ashiru crossed over to the APC in 2014 and contested  with El-Rufai for the governorship ticket, but lost.  He was the PDP candidate in 2019 but again, he lost to El-Rufai. During his campaign tours across the State, Ashiru had promised to review the policies of the APC government in the state. His five-point agenda is centred on security, education, health , agriculture as well as women and youth empowerment. He also promised to review the issue of sacked teachers in the state. KANO The All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship flag bearer in Kano State, Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna is set to continue with some of the key policies of the Ganduje administration, reports Desmond Mgboh. Gawuna, who is one of the most experienced contestants in the governorship elections in the state, having served as local government chairman, Commissioner of Agriculture and deputy governor, said he would focus on education, health care, trade and commerce and the security of lives and property if elected.  Other highlights from his blueprint included a key attention to sports development, works and infrastructural development, social welfare, women and youth empowerment , industrialisation and  civil service revival,  including attention to people with disabilities. The candidate of the NNPP, Abba Kabiru Yusuf has promised to give education, especially science and technology a major boost if elected next Saturday. In his 70-page blueprint, which was unveiled months ago, he also pledged to reposition the health care delivery system of the state. He assured that he would transform the economy of the state to an enviable position, making it second to none in the whole of the sub- Saharan Africa while adding that he would continue with the solid foundations set by Senator Rabiu Musa, which were abandoned by the present administration in the past eight years. He also pledged to improve infrastructure, enhance security,  promote good environment and drive the civil service to greater efficiency and effectiveness.  OYO The Saturday March 11, 2023 governorship election in Oyo State will be a straight two-horse or three-horse race between two or among three politic parties. Oluseye Ojo reports that it might be a two-horse race between the incumbent governor, Seyi Makinde of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Senator Teslim Folarin of All Progressives Congress (APC). However, it can be a three-horse race among Makinde, Folarin, and Chief Adebayo Adelabu of the Accord (A). But the three of them as well as 15 other governorship candidates of other political parties have released their manifestos. Opinion polls before the February 25 presidential poll said the governorship poll would be a triangular race among the three leading parties – PDP, APC and Accord.  The emergence of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu of APC as the President-Elect of Nigeria, has made some political analysts to submit that Adelabu should work with Folarin so that APC will also win the governorship poll in Oyo State. But there has not been anything to show that Adelabu is ready to shift ground for anybody. Makinde, promised: “Under Omituntun 1.0 (referring to his first term in office), I promised a government that would put people of Oyo State first. And our decisions have always taken the people of Oyo State first. Now, it is time to upgrade. It is time for Omituntun 2.0. With this, we are moving from accelerated to sustainable development.” Folarin promised to “focus squarely on proffering solutions to the enormous downward trend standing in the way of our state’s prosperity, in spite of our potential. Some of the key initiatives and innovations that we have highlighted in our Rescue Mission for Growth and Development Blueprint are: sincere and holistic agricultural reforms, strategic urban regeneration drive, employment and entrepreneurial opportunities with focus on Youth and Small Medium Enterprises (SME), through innovative ideas, first-rate healthcare service delivery and high-quality and quantitative education system. Ours is a government that shall be driven by Information Technology at all levels of governance.” In the same vein, Adelabu has unveiled his seven-point agenda for the people of the state, which borders on security of lives and property, mechanised agriculture and poverty alleviation, industrialisation and employment creation, health, education, environment, as well as good governance and innovative ideas.”  CROSS RIVER  Governorship candidates of All Progressives Congress (APC) Sen. Bassey Otu and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Prof. Sandy Onor, have promised people-oriented welfare programmes if elected as governor in next Saturday’s polls, according to Judex Okoro. Otu said:”We believe in the people first and our policy trust is anchored on eliminating wastages, subsidising productivity and all the institutions and programmes that support that. “We would sustain the gains while improving and maintaining the legacies of our past leaders, especially in the area of human capital development, tourism, value addition, national and international collaborations, infrastructure and mega structures.” On his part, the PDP governorship candidate, Prof. Onor, said: “Our mission will be to produce a technical blueprint and initiate therein a realistic/holistic restoration development that would guide in actualising my vision for Cross River State, aligning it with the policy of Vision-2020 and CR-SEED Programmes.” Sen. Onor further said: “We would create an enabling environment where in the medium term, the major facets of our economy will become sustainable again and private sector driven as well as focus on all aspects of the economic, socio-political environment, infrastructural development. “Harnessing solid minerals and mining, urban renewal, adequate water supply, energy improvement, education, women and youth development, health, social welfare services and security would be given attention.” RIVERS Tony John reports that in Rivers State, there are three major contenders for the governorship seat. They include Sir Siminialayi Fubara of the PDP, Senator Magnus Abe of SDP and Tonye Cole of the APC.  Sir Siminialayi Fubara is Governor Nyesom Wike’s anointed candidate and he (Wike) has been campaigning intensively for him ahead of the governorship election on March 11, 2023. The governorship candidate’s campaign mantra is that he is going to consolidate on the legacies of Governor Wike. Across the state, anywhere you see PDP campaign billboard, the caption, “The Consolidation Team 2023” is boldly written. Senator Magnus Abe. He is the governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), on the state. His campaign message has been to create all-inclusive government. Though the party has been new in Rivers State, the governorship candidate has campaigned widely across the state, in spite of repeated attacks and intimidation  of members by political thugs, as alleged by Senator Abe. Tonye Cole is the anointed candidate preferred by the immediate past Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi. Among Tonye Cole’s campaign promises are to create employment and engage the youths meaningfully in order to grow the state economy and curb criminality. KEBBI In Kebbi State, reports Olanrewaju Lawal the race is believed, among many citizens, to be between the governorship candidate of the ruling APC, Dr. Nasir Idris, and that of the PDP, General Aminu Bande (rtd). In his blueprint policy for the electorate in the state, Idris promised to focus on youths and women empowerment, strengthen the education sector, provide security for people and unite the people of the state irrespective of their Emirates and tribes. He equally promised to focus on provision of infrastructure facilities, poverty reduction and health sector development. Gen. Barde, the PDP governorship candidate, said in his blueprint: “Our administration will place a high premium on tertiary education, especially in science, technology and all forms of functional education that will enable students to acquire skills for vocational and entrepreneurship, agriculture development, rural development , security across the state, among others. GOMBE In Gombe State, reporets Abdulrazak Auwal, the battle is mainly between the candidate of the ruling APC and that of the NNPP. Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya has been campaigning, seeking re-election for the sake of continuity and also for the completion of the Muhammadu Buhari Industrial Park project that was initiated by his administration, the Mega Motor Park project and the implementation of the already developed plans and policies in the state. The governorship candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Khamisu Ahmad Mailantarki, also appears to be a major contender in the race. In his campaigns, he has been promising to focus on addressing challenges in the area of women and youths as well as providing scholarships and placing the education sector on the right path. He has also promised to reposition the agriculture sector and to ensure equal and rightful distribution of the dividends of democracy across communities in the state. KATSINA In Katsina, the battle is between the candidate of the APC and that of the PDP, reports Agaju Madugba. The APC governorship candidate, Dr. Umar Dikko Radda, has consistently said that if elected governor during the March 11, 2023 governorship polls, his administration will focus on restoring peace and security in the area, after several years of banditry and terror activities in parts of the state.    As part of measures to achieve this, Radda, says some of his cardinal programmes will involve the training of youths from across the state who will work with security agencies to combat the menace of banditry and related criminal activities of terrorists.  The PDP governorship candidate, Senator Yakubu Lado, is a serial governorship contestant, having consistently made failed attempts at clinching the enviable position since 2015. His campaign also centres on the precarious security situation in Katsina, essentially due to murderous activities of bandits and kidnappers.  According to him, “when the PDP takes over power, our priorities will focus on restoring security of lives and property where people will live without any fears of attacks and sleep with their two eyes closed.  “Only the PDP has the people’s interest at heart because we did it for 16 years and you all saw it and no one will say they did not enjoy the time we ruled the country and Katsina State.” NIGER The race in Niger State is between the PDP and APC, although Labour Party might spring some surprise, reports John Adams. The PDP candidate, Alhaji Isah Liman Kantigi has unveiled a 16 page document containing his manifestos and plan of action for the state if elected in 2023. The governorship candidate in the document titled “My Bond with the people of the state” presented to Party stakeholders in Minna at the weekend, listed among other things, infrastructure, health, agriculture, education and women empowerment as his priority. He specifically mentioned women empowerment as one area that his administration will beam searchlight on with a promise to create a Department for Widows, women Ministry which will be under the office of the governor directly. The APC candidate, Hon. Umar Bago in his manifestoes released in Abuja listed education, youths and women empowerment, security infrastructure and health as his area of priority attention if given the mandate. The Labour Party Governorship, Mr. Joshua Bawa said his vision for Niger state if elected in 2023 as governor of the state, will be security, education, economy and digitalization (SEED) as his areas of priorities, saying that the poverty index in the state as at January this year is very worrisome. He said poverty index in Nigeria places Niger State at number eight in the country, saying that the situation needs urgent attention, adding that the state has what it takes to feed the entire country and even export to tiger African countries.