From Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, has appealed to the electorate in Bayelsa to again vote massively for candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Saturday’s House of Assembly election. The party won the Presidential elections and cleared all the seven national assembly seats declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the February 25th elections. Diri ahead of the House of Assembly elections scheduled for Saturday March 11 and as part of preparations to ensure the party comes tops convened a three-day consultative meeting party’s candidates, caucus leaders, stakeholders and the leadership of the non-indigenes from the eight local government areas. While congratulating the state PDP for the overwhelming victory recorded by the party in the February 25 presidential and National Assembly elections, he expressed hope that the same feat would be repeated this Saturday. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, quoted the governor as commending the peaceful conduct of the elections across Bayelsa, saying it was unprecedented in the history of elections in the state. Diri called on PDP members across the state to redouble their effort in order to emerge victorious in the state assembly election. He equally urged party members to close ranks and work as a family, stating that when they are united and put the interest of the party above personal consideration, achieving victory becomes easier. His words, “I like to return all thanks and glory to God for the victory recorded in the February 25 elections. It can only be God. “God does not come down. He uses men as instruments and He has used leaders of our party in the various local government areas. “On behalf of your government and our party, I say big congratulations to you all for the victory. We appreciate you for making our party proud. It is no mean feat, particularly when compared with other states. In Bayelsa, PDP recorded 100 per cent victory. “In this Saturday’s state assembly election, I urge people of the state to replicate this feat in giving victory to our candidates in the 24 state constituencies. I can assure you that our party will not deviate from its track record of development.”