From Desmond Mgboh, Kano, Lateef Dada, Osogbo, Noah Ebije, Kaduna, Paul Osuyi, Asaba and Layi Olanrewaju, Ilorin  The Coalition of Civil Societies for Good Governance has warned the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) against a repeat of mistakes that happened in the presidential and NASS Assembly elections. The group at a press conference addressed by its coordinator, Olufemi Lawson, at Osogbo, Osun State, claimed that the actions of INEC chairman, Professor Mahmoud Yakubu, undermined President Muhammadu Buhari’s promise to Nigerians and the international community of holding free, fair, and credible elections. It held that INEC failed to adhere to critical provisions of the amended Electoral Act with several reports of Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) challenges, delay in upholding results and excuses of server hutches.  It said there were also cases of outright voter intimidation in parts of the country, particularly, where people were allegedly prevented from voting, and INEC was silent on the occurrences throughout the election. “Last Saturday’s conduct of INEC, is unacceptable and should not be allowed. We warn INEC not to undermine the will of Nigerians, particularly in the coming days that Nigerians will be out again, elect Governors and members of the States houses of Assembly. “As a stakeholder in the process, we had high hopes that INEC would do a good job, unfortunately, it appears that the electoral body was not prepared to conduct credible elections and the body language of Prof. Yakubu suggests this,” the group noted. •Alleged plot to disrupt guber polls rattles stakeholders in Kano A fresh wave of anxiety has gripped the metropolis of Kano following alleged moves to provide security uniforms to political thugs and touts during the governorship elections in the state. Speaking at a press conference at the press centre, seven governorship  candidates of political parties in the state said it has received report of the moves as well as a plot by some unpatriotic politicians to disrupt the governorship elections in the state.. The candidates who raised the alarm included  Ibrahim Khalil (ADC), Bala Muhammad Gwagwarwa (SDP), Sadiq Aminu Wali (PDP) Salihu Tanko Yakasai (PRP), Yakubu Uba Gaya (YPP), Ibrahim Muhammad (APP) and  Aisha Mahmud (NRM) Spokesperson for the candidates, Ibrahim Khalil, also alleged that there were plans to delay the commencement of the electoral process especially in Kano Central district on the election day. However, APC has vowed to check any attempt by the New Nigeria Peoples  Party (NNPP) to undertake any form of electoral malpractice during elections.  Muhammad Garba, spokesperson of the APC  Campaign Organisation and Commissioner of Information, made the assertion in a statement. •More confusion in Abia PDP over running mate  There appeared to be more confusion in Abia State PDP over choice of running mate for the governorship candidate, Okey Ahiwe. Two persons, Okey Igwe and Jasper Uche are being touted as running mate. Igwe was the running mate to the former governorship candidate, Prof. Uche Ikonne, who died on January 25. When fresh primary was held and Ahiwe emerged as replacement, the state working Committee  swapped the name of Igwe with that of Uche. Addressing journalists, state vice chairman of PDP, Abia North and acting Publicity Secretary, Amah Abraham, said the PDP NWC had through a letter upturned the SWC decision and affirmed Igwe as the running mate. However, in a statement, yesterday, Eze Chikamnayo, chairman, Media and Publicity Committee,  Abia State PDP Campaign Council and Commissioner for Information and Strategy said there was no confusion over the deputy governorship candidate. He said Uche, whose name had been duly submitted to INEC after the fresh primary of the party remains the authentic deputy governorship candidate. He said Chief Abraham who spoke to the press on the issue, merely expressed his personal opinion. •9 candidates endorse PDP’s Ashiru, vow to vote out APC No fewer than nine governorship candidates for March 11 election in Kaduna State have endorsed the governorship candidate of the major opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Muhammad Isah Ashiru as their consensus candidate, as well as his running mate, John Ayuba. The governorship candidates are those of the Young Progressive Party (YPP), Action Alliance (AA) Allied People’s Movement (APM),  Action People’s Party (APP), All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA)  National Rescue Movement (NRM), Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Accord Party (AP) and Action Democratic Party (ADP). The governorship candidates under the auspices of Rescue and Rebuild Gubernatorial Candidates Forum said their support for Ashiru was total in order to rescue the State from socio-economic hardship. Addressing supporters of PDP, yesterday, chairman of the Forum, Sanin Yaya said: “We took this decision after extensive consultation with our party members as well as the good people of kaduna state. This decision is bone out of our genuine desire to have one indivisible state irrespective of tribal or religious differences, and we are confident that Isah Ashiru Kudan is the only candidate that will unify the state.  “This can be seen from the manner of his campaign which is aimed at building Kaduna State as well from the selection of his running mate which has given fair representation to both Christians and Muslims who are the two major stakeholders in the state.” •Rivers State LP, Princewill, cautions against violence Fafaa Dan Princewill of the LP has urged indigenes and residents of Rivers State to come out en masse to vote, stressing that the people must be vigilant to defend their votes at the governorship poll. Speaking with journalists in Port Harcourt, he condemned what he described as anti-democratic posture of some politicians, and wondered why INEC reneged on obeying the Electoral Act which duly enshrined electronic transmission of results.  He said Rivers people must put an end to the loss of young lives in the state, adding that electoral violence has no place in a decent society and noting that LP is a party for the hope of the present and future generations. •Ogboru storms church, vows to liberate Delta State Delta State governorship candidate of All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), Great Ogboru, has promised to liberate the state from captivity if elected. He made this promise when his campaign train stopped at the headquarters of God’s Grace Ministry Church, Arubaye, Warri, for the church’s General Women’s Week with the theme: ‘Jesus Calms the Storm’. He said if elected, his administration would run an all inclusive government with better future for the state. Besides, he promised Deltans a new state that will offer better life which the people have been yearning for for over two decades now. He said a vote for all APGA candidates would be the beginning of transformation of Delta State. “The spirit of the Lord is upon me, and he has anointed me to preach the good news to the poor, he has sent me to heal the broken hearted and asked me to set the captives free. “The message of today is the message of hope, because all we have gone through in the hands of bad government will come to an end come March 11. And that is why I am here that Deltans will have life and have it more abundantly,” he declared. The APGA Jubilee agenda campaign train also moved to the nooks and cranny of Patani Local Government Area to give the message to the people ahead of the Saturday’s election.  •LP denies alliance with APC in C/River The LP Cross River chapter has denied any alliance with the APC ahead of the Governorship and state House of Assembly elections in the state. The state Publicity Secretary, Dr Lekan Ofem, debunked the claim in a statement in Calabar. The APC state Chairman, Mr Alphonsus Eba, had made the claim of his party going into alliance with the LP at a press conference in Calabar, yesterday. Eba had said the APC would adopt the LP House of Assembly candidate for Yala 1, Mr Brian Odey, for the poll. He explained that the endorsement/adoption of the LP candidate followed the Supreme Court judgment nullifying the candidacy of Mrs Regina Anyogo, who was hitherto the candidate of the APC. He said endorsing/adopting the LP candidate was in line with the political calculation and sportsmanship to support the LP in the state. The LP Publicity Secretary said the endorsement of LP Candidate for Yala 1 State Constituency has no affiliation with LP Cross River structure and that the chapter completely dissociate itself from the arrangement. “Eba this morning at the Press Center in Calabar claimed that Labour Party in Cross River State has collapsed her structure for APC. “I wish to state that LP is not in any alliance with APC or any political party as LP has a Governorship Candidate in the person of Ogar Osim who is very much in the race to victory. “We understand that LP outstanding performance during the Presidential Elections where LP won in Cross River State including Yala LGA which is the primary constituency of the APC State Chairman has placed Labour Party as a threat to other political parties,” he said. •Why we’re supporting APC’s Omo-Agege – Obidients The coalition of support groups for the LP presidential candidate, Mr. Peter Obi, in Delta State, have pitched tent with the governorship candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Ovie Omo-Agege. This is even as the party in the state has a governorship candidate, Mr. Kennedy Pela, for the election. Addressing journalists in Asaba after meeting with Omo-Agege, the coalition declared that the APC candidate is the most credible among all those on the ballot for the governorship election. Lead coordinator of the coalition from Delta central, Ochuko Edafe, said the over 800 Peter Obi support groups have decided to work with Omo-Agege and ensure he is elected. Edafe insisted that members of Obidient Movement were not card carrying members of Labour Party, adding that they are driven by the credibility and character of individual candidates. “What we look out is credible candidates across board. And we have chosen to work with Ovie Omo-Agege, he is the most credible candidate in the race.  “We know everything happening in Delta State, we have suffered for too long, and we are going to maximise this opportunity,” he said. According to him, Omo-Agege has a track record of performance as a federal legislator. Acting lead coordinator of Obidient Movement in the state, Ngozi Ariel Nkonyegwachie, said the deputy Senate president would provide the needed fresh air if elected. She said Omo-Agege possesses the same character with Peter Obi, hence they decided to join forces with the APC to deliver the candidate. Addressing the gathering earlier, Omo-Agege promised to run a participatory government if elected, noting that Delta APC and Obidient Movement have things in common. •Kwara SDP rules out alliance with PDP, others The Social Democratic Party (SPD) has ruled out any alliance with the Peoples Democratic Party or any other party in Kwara State. The presidential candidate, Adewole Adebayo, who made the clarification, claimed that the PDP was responsible for the problems confronting Nigeria asked rhetorically: How do we go back to form alliance with such party again?  We joined the APC  because we were injured by the PDP, the APC has also injured us. So, for us there won’t be any alliance with any political party in Kwara State and elsewhere. The SDP is in the race to win elections, not only in Kwara State, but across the country.” Adebayo who expressed reservation about the outcome of the presidential election said Nigeria would not move forward until all stakeholders recognise  the need to fight poverty and insecurity. The SDP chairman in the state, Alh AbdulAziz Adebayo, also corroborated the presidential candidate and the state’s gubernatorial candidate on the merger issue, saying the SDP was  not contemplating any alliance with any party ahead of the gubernatorial poll.