By Henry Uche Embittered by the current unprecedented economic rdecline, the Association of Professional Bodies of Nigeria (APBN) has expressed sadness over the excruciating pains faced by Nigerians from some of the Monetary Policy direction of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN),including the currency redesign and the scarcity and high cost of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) known as fuel.  Addressing newsmen recently in Lagos after its Board Meeting, the president of the Association, Mr. Manason Garkuwa Rubainu, maintained that it was obvious that Professionals were not involved at every given stage of the recent economic policies and implementation.  According to him, world leaders who meant well for their citizens always engage experts in their administration particularly at every given time of policy design, planning and critical decisions that affects the masses for the welfare of theirs citizens, saying:  “The ideas of professionals in different fields of life make significant difference in results obtained”  APBN president affirmed that only if the government at the center had engaged professionals in its administration, things wouldn’t have been worse.  Under President Buhari led -administration, Nigeria has been enmeshed with over N44trillion debt burden with rising debt servicing obligation. He lamented that even with increased borrowing Nigeria is still experiencing low productivity, high unemployment and underemployment rate, epileptic power sector, hyper – galloping inflation, unprecedented exchange rate, decayed infrastructure, corruption, insurgency,  and a feeble private sector among others.  “To be honest, professionals are not given their rightful place in the event of things in the country. Governance is certainly service delivery and such service are globally delivered by professionals.  “Government should adequately exploit the potential of professionals. Professionals have a duty to render specific services to the citizens at both private and public sector. The CBN has the statutory right to do what they did, but the planning and implementation was poor. If you want to get the best, you must engage experts who understands the situation and know exactly what to do for a desired result.”  On gubernatorial and State Houses of Assembly elections, Rubainu who frowned over INEC’s shortcomings towards the presidential and National Assembly elections said it was not yet uhuru as it’s expected of them, the security personnel, foreign and local observers as well as other stakeholders to conscientiously act responsibly in the gubernatorial elections.  “INEC, security personnel and others must deliver the gubernatorial elections with utmost sense of responsibility and dedication. Politicians too must be responsible and respect the rules. We urged citizens to be responsible too.  On his part, the immediate past president of APBN, Surv. Akin Oyegbola urged APBN members to always resort to the Umbrella body when and where necessary. Oyegbola who expressed optimism in the Association asseverated that APBN has been working for the interest of its members and would sustain such mandate. “We are 32 in number, and we consciously recognize that we are here for each other, and we are working to give every member profession body its due recognition” he posited.