By Adewale Sanyaolu Traders and corporate enterprises across major markets and high streets in Lagos have shut down their businesses over fear of possible attack as Nigerians await the result of the 2023 election. Findings by Daily Sun shows that traders at the popular Idumota market, Mandilas, Ebute-Ero, Nnamdi Azikwe, Broad and Martins Street on Lagos Island have all shut down trading activities. As at yesterday (Tuesday) most of the traders in the locations listed above were yet to open for business. While some daring traders are barely managing to do skeletal operations, others completely stayed off the markets. A trader in Idumota who identified himself as Alhaji Sanusi Bello, said he had to stay off the market for fear of possible attack. He said some traders were attacked on Monday following the announcement of the election results in Lagos resulting in losses for some traders whose goods were torched in the attack. He lamented that the continued closure of the markets would culminate in huge loss es for the traders, especially those that took loans from microfinance banks which are being serviced on a daily basis. Another trader at the popular Tejuosho market in Yaba, Lagos, who deals in second hand clothing, Mr. Phillip  Agu, said traders have deserted the market for fear of attack, saying he is hoping that by weekend, things would have normalised. The situation was not different at the popular electronics market in Alaba, Ojo Local Government, Lagos, ASPAMDA market, Trade Fair. Also in Alimosho Local Government, traders who deal in mattress, beddings, curtains and other household accessories in Gate, Ipaja axis have all shut down operations. A cross section of the traders in some of the markets who spoke to Daily Sun in separate interviews said the development was a setback to commerce, saying the development portends grave danger for their businesses. They argued that not until results were announced and traders monitor the situation to be sure it was safe to open for business, traders may not return to the various markets. On Adeniyi Jones Street, Ikeja, Lagos some stores and offices are not open for business as they appear to have deserted the offices and shops for fear of violence. Also traders at the Amu plank market in Mushin, Lagos have also shut down their businesses to avoid being caught in the wave of any possible violence that may erupt. Speaking to Daily Sun in a telephone chat, Alhaji Kabiru Adeosun, said Mushin is a black spot and any violence that erupts may likely start from Mushin, hence the decision of some traders to stay way from the market. He, however, called on security agencies to save businesses from imminent collapse by ensuring that security of lives and properties are guaranteed.