From Olanrewaju Lawal, Birnin Kebbi Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Nigeria Beach Soccer Association (NBSA) has commended the National President of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF)Alhaji Musa Gusau for his strong support towards the development of the beach soccer game in Nigeria. The Association, stated this in a communiqué, jointly signed after their virtually general meeting,which was signed by Auwal Nasir, Busayo Olowokere,Rasheed Saraki andOyediji Oluwaseun Babatunde. According to them,”the Congress appreciated the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) under the leadership of Alhaji Musa Gusau for showing interest to develop the game of Beach Soccer after witnessing the successes recorded by the Association so far, particularly in the administration of a national league. “The Congress regrets the failure of the National Beach soccer Team (Super Sand Eagles) to feature at the last African Cup of Nations in Vilankulo, Mozambique. And while the Association pledges its continued commitment to complement the NFF on its mandates, it hopes that more would be done collaboratively to ensure that the Super Sand Eagles not only qualify for future international engagements but emerge victoriously, such as the 2025 FIFA Beach soccer World Cup scheduled for Seychelles and its African qualifiers that shall be held before this global event”. They explained that the Congress promised not to relent in its commitment to the development of beach soccer across the country from the grassroots as it has been doing since endorsement by the NFF. “We congratulates all Clubs that featured in the 2022 season of the Nigeria Beach Soccer League (NBSL) which witnessed an increase in the number from 8 clubs at the inaugural edition in 2021 to 10 clubs in the 2022 season. Particularly, the congress congratulated the following clubs for a successful outing; Kwara Beach Soccer Club (BSC), Kelme Galaxy BSC, Smart City BSC, Kada Stars BSC, Niger BSC, Kogi Confluence BSC, Kebbi Fishers BSC, Igbogbo Kingdom BSC, Nmanko Patigi BSC, and Badagry Warriors BS. “The season features the traditional four (4) stages of Round 1 (Kwara State), Round 2 (Kebbi State), Round 3 (Lagos state) and the Super 4 Finals (Kebbi State). ” The Congress hopes that the NBSL continues to be a platform to open up more clubs to join the domestic league, with more States like Jigawa, Katsina, Edo, Rivers and Akwa Ibom State embracing the sport. And It equally hopes to continue innovations adopted during last season, such as the Data collection of league games, the introduction of a Technical Study Group (TSG), and the monitoring/ adoption of the latest amendment to the laws of the game. “Also, is the introduction of the sponsored man of the match awards and participation of beach soccer referees in FIFA courses. Similarly, there are efforts in place to facilitate the training of beach soccer coaches ahead of the next season”, they said. The CEO/League Coordinator; Mr Mahmud Hadeji ,according to them, presented the proposed 2023 NBSL season calendar for Round 1 (April), Round 2 (May), Round 3 (June), and Super Finals (July). And it was announced that Host Centers are open for bidding. He was quoted to have said that, the interested states are to submit an EOI (Expression of Interest) to the Secretariat no later than the last day of the first quarter of 2023 stressed that, the opening up of the bidding process was aimed at further ensuring the game go around the country. “The CEO further noted that the future of the game of beach soccer is corporate sponsorship. Hence clubs were admonished to continue sourcing for sponsorship from Private Corporate bodies to complement support given by their respective State Governments to further grow and elevate the league. The Association intends to vigorously engage more sponsors and partners to improve the league, as more sponsors are expected to join the new league season”.   They added that,: “In a moment of grief, the CEO announced the unfortunate death of the CEO of one of the major sponsors of the league in the person of Hon. Abba Bello Muhammed; MD of BAM Projects and Properties. A formal condolence message had been sent to his family, Also, as that of the deceased Niger Beach Soccer player. ” Congress adopted Club licensing for the league clubs, with expectations for its introduction ahead of next season. Resource persons are being facilitated to sensitize clubs about licensing in an online webinar, with the support of the Nigeria Football Federation. Also, the formal registration of clubs with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) as a legal entity is being encouraged as it going corporate toward the sustainability of clubs, including owing their own Beach Soccer pitch and training facilities.