By Peter Bakare Leaders-in-charge, Cherubim & Seraphim Movement Church, Surulere District, New Glory Parish, Abule-Onilu, Igando, Lagos, Special Mother-in-Israel Pastor Oyeyemi Adedokun, has called on Christians to give willingly for divine fulfilment and everlasting freedom. She made the appeal at a three-day crusade in Itekun, Ogun State with the theme: “The Most Powerful God.” She said: “It is necessary for Christians to imbibe the spirit of giving and sacrifice so that God will take us to a height we have never been to. It is necessary to put smile on the faces of the needy and the less privileged in the society. “Our church gave out foodstuffs and other items to Abule-Onilu where the church is situated. The church has equally been distributing food, as well as spread the gospel. “It’s a total package, the word of God, spiritual food and the physical food. We have embarked on this exercise for the past 20 years in Abule-Onilu, which we are taking a step further in Itekun, Ogun State. “The essence of giving back to the society is to bring joy back to the people. We have great insecurity in the land and people have lost hope in the entire system. “Jesus is the hope of the world. God Himself gave us joy by giving His only begotten Son and as long as we have Jesus in us there will be everlasting joy. “Christ was born as gift to the world. That is why we have gathered to celebrate Him. We should continue to radiate the joy of God. We should let people see that indeed Christ is in us and we have Joy living in us by giving to our neighbours and friends to bring back the old glory. “Christians need to pray and speak in a unified voice to elect credible leaders that would guarantee the welfare and security of the citizens. “This programme serves as an avenue to foster peace, unity and love among Nigerians. It is also to promote good leadership for a united nation, despite the diversity. Nigerians, irrespective of socio-cultural and ethno-religious differences, should imbibe the spirit of sacrifice, tolerance and forgiveness to move the nation forward. “Festive period is not just for holiday and feasting. It is a period of angelic visitation. It is a period whereby God glorifies Himself in our lives and covers man with glory. “It is a time of divine encounter, a period of peace, reconciliation and good will as the Bible says we should follow peace with all men. This is a period of faith and not fear. At a time like this we should do all we can to build up our faith. “The Bible says ‘faithful is He that calleth us and He will do it.’ I want to encourage everyone that things can only get better if we trust in God.”