From Charity Nwakaudu, Abuja   Former President Goodluck Jonathan, Dr Paul Enenche, Dr. Dauda Lawal, and 11 other Nigerians have been named among the ‘100 Most Reputable Africans’ 2023. The ‘roll of honour’ was released by Reputation Poll International (RPI), a global reputation firm. The list features individuals from diverse sectors, including governance/leadership, entertainment, human rights/advocacy, education, and business. The selection criteria are integrity, visibility, and impact. One of the people featured on the list is Dr. Dauda Lawal, Dauda Lawal provided outstanding service while in banking, and rose steadily from a middle management position in 2003, to executive management position from 2010 to date. During this time, he became a Fellow of the Institute of Credit Administration of Nigeria, and also a Fellow of the Civilian Institute of Democratic Administration of Ghana. Dauda Lawal is also a Member of the Institute of Directors, Nigeria, African Business Roundtable, and the Institute of Corporate Administration, Nigeria. One of Dauda Lawal’s regular initiatives is giving back to a society he believes has given him so much. He regularly engages in building new relevant structures in schools and communities, in addition to rehabilitating primary, secondary and University facilities. Other Prominent personalities featured on the list include Kenya’s Amina Chawahir Mohamed; South Africa’s Bonang Mohale, Chancellor at the University of the Free State and Professor at Johannesburg Business School; and Cameroun’s Njoya Tiku, Manager of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Regional Office in West and Central Africa. On governance and policy, the roll has, among others: Kenya’s President, William K. Ruto; Lazarus Chakwera, President of Malawi; and Ivory Coast Senator Chantal Moussokoura Fanny. On business, there are: Egypt’s Naguib Onsi Sawiris, Chairman of Weather Investment’s parent company; Ghana’s Sir Samuel Esson Jonah, Chancellor of the University of Cape Coast and Executive Chairman of Jonah Capital; South Africa’s Carol Bouwer: and Nigeria’s Dr. Dauda Lawal, Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Credent Capital and Advisory. On human rights and advocacy, there are: Martha K. Koome, Chief Justice of Kenya, Nigeria’s Aisha Yesufu and Dr. Jennifer Douglas founder Gede Foundation. On leadership, the roll has: Ethiopia’s President, Sahle Work-Zedwe; Nigeria’s Dr. Paul Enenche, Founder and General Overseer, The Dunamis International Gospel Centre; and Ghana’s Afua Kyei, Chief Financial Officer at Bank of England, where she leads the Finance Directorate and Akinremi Bolaji . Director of Economy Trade & Investment not Consular Services. In addition to the individuals recognised, there are also those who are celebrated for their contributions to social impact and social entrepreneurship, helping to transform businesses in Africa and positively impacting lives without causing controversy. During announcement of the list, Ms. Beldina Auma, the Co-Chairperson of the Review and Audit Committee, as well as Chair Emeritus of the World Bank Group-IMF African Society, President of SCIP-International, said the organisation is dedicated to recognising people, groups, and businesses who continually improve lives in Africa and around the world