From Scholastica Onyeka, Makurdi The Special Adviser to Governor Samuel Ortom on Media and Publicity, Terver Akase, has stated that his boss and other members of the G-5 Governors have not endorsed the presidential candidate of People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, for the 2023 election. Akase stated this while reacting to a report which claimed that Governor Ortom and his colleagues in the G-5 have resolved to work for Mr Atiku Abubakar to win the 2023 election. The Governor’s aide who described the report as fictitious said it is not only false but also a mischievous act targeted at embarrassing the five Governors who have chosen the path of justice, fairness and equity. Akase in a statement said “Manufacturers of the said report were apparently on a desperate mission to score a cheap political point. The report could not mention the place and date of the said meeting of G-5 Governors. “The writers only sought to take advantage of the crisis within the PDP for their selfish purposes. Governor Ortom and other members of the G-5 have not endorsed the said presidential candidate,” Akase said. He explained furtht that “When the Governor Ortom met with the expanded state caucus of PDP on Monday, January 9, 2023, at the Benue Peoples House, Makurdi, his message to them was crystal clear that the national leadership of PDP has failed to utilize its internal conflict resolution mechanism which has led to the crisis rocking the party. “The Governor said during the meeting that if the crisis is not resolved before the elections, he would be left with no other option than to take a stand on the matter. “He added however that he wouldn’t impose his decision on members of the party in the state. “Stakeholders present at the meeting commended the Governor for his patriotic disposition and pledged to line up behind him. “Those who spoke on behalf of zones A, B and C, as well as for women and youths, all said Governor Ortom has shown the character of a dependable leader who puts the interest of his people first. “The stakeholders pledged to find ways of resolving the internal crisis rocking the party while assuring the Governor that they would continue to stand with him through thick and thin. “Governor Ortom did not address the press after the meeting. The online report is therefore fake and should be disregarded,” he added.