From Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja There are indications that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) disciplinary panels at various levels would determine the fate of former Enugu State governor, Chimaroke Nnamani, and other candidates of the party in the 2023 poll, who were suspended last week, for alleged anti-party activities. The PDP National Working Committee (NWC), in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, last Friday, announced the suspension of Nnamani, its candidate for Enugu East senatorial zone.  Others suspended were Chris Ogbu; Ayeni Funso, Ekiti North; Ajijola Lateef Oladimeji, Ekiti Central; Emiola Adenike Jennifer, Ekiti South II; Ajayi Babatunde Samuel, Ekiti North II; Olayinka James Olalere ,Ekiti Central; Akerele Oluyinka, Ekiti North I  and Fayose Oluwajomiloju John, Ekiti Central I.  The suspension is expected to last for 30 days within which the appropriate levels of the party would take definite positions on their issues.  However, amidst concerns over the fate of Nnamani and other suspended members, who are PDP standard-bearers for various elective positions, a highly placed source at the party national secretariat told Daily Sun that the affected members remains candidate of the party, pending the determination of the allegations against them by the respective disciplinary committee, which will investigate their cases. According to the source, the disciplinary committees, after hearing the cases against Nnamani and others may recommend a reprimand, fine, expulsion or even dismiss the case against them, in line with Article 59 of the PDP constitution. Article 59 of the PDP constitution provides that any member who contravenes the party’s constitution “shall be liable to any or combination of the following penalties: reprimand, censure, fine, suspension with a fine, debarment from holding any party office, removal from office, expulsion from the party.” When contacted, Ologunagba told Daily Sun that there were allegations against the suspended members and the party is treating the allegations in line with its constitution. “There are allegations of conduct, utterances and behaviour that constitute breach of provision of the constitution. And because of those allegations, the party as responsible and as a party that follows its constitution has taken action when allegation are made, of course we are under obligation and the constitution of the party to take actions in line with the constitution of the party to investigate. That is what we are doing. “We are a law-abiding party. We are following our constitution. Candidature is a different matter. But for us what we have done is to go through our process as constitution party,” Ologunagba said. The opposition spokesman said those who have been alleged will be given the opportunity in line with the constitution to appear before the appropriate level of the party and that is ongoing.