Former Chelsea striker and manager Gianluca Vialli, who played 59 times for Italy, has died at the age 58. He was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in 2017 but said in April 2020 that he had been given the all-clear. Vialli was re-diagnosed in 2021 and in December 2022 left a role with Italy’s national team to focus on his health. “Gianluca was a splendid person and he leaves a void that cannot be filled,” said Italian Football Federation (FIGC) president Gabriele Gravina. “I hoped until the end that he would be able to perform another miracle. Yet I am comforted by the certainty that what he did for Italian football and the blue shirt will never be forgotten.” The FIGC confirmed that a minute’s silence in memory of Vialli will be held before all Italian matches this weekend. Vialli made his Italy debut in 1985, a year after joining Sampdoria where he would win the Serie A title and European Cup Winners’ Cup during eight seasons with the club. Sampdoria said in a statement: “We won’t forget your 141 goals , your overhead kicks, your cashmere shirts, your earring, your platinum blonde hair, your Ultras bomber jacket. You gave us so much, we gave you so much: yes, it was love, reciprocal, infinite. A love that will not die today with you.” Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Muhammed Ali’s grandson explains why he picked MMA over boxing Biaggio Ali Walsh has explained why he took up MMA rather than follow his legendary grandfather into the world of boxing. Three-time world heavyweight champion Muhammad Ali was nicknamed ‘The Greatest’ and is regarded by many as one of the best and most influential boxers of all time. Several years after his passing, one of his grandsons, Nico Ali Walsh, looked to create his own legacy in the sport and is now a top prospect with a ton of hype. The 22-year-old has won seven straight fights since turning to professional boxing in 2021 and is leading the way when it comes to creating a legacy for the Ali Walsh name. However, he is not the only gifted athlete in the family. Biaggio was a talented American football player who started out as a running back during his final year of high school in Las Vegas. The 24-year-old ultimately went to the University of California, Berkley and played for the Golden Bears between 2018 and 2019.