From Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, has said he met a collapsed state on assumption of office on January 15, 2020. In a state broadcast, yesterday to mark his three years in office, he regretted that past administrations before him plunged the state into almost irreparable situation but noted that his determination to turn things around spurred him to record numerous achievements in the past three years of his administration. He promised to leave the state as one of the most successful and developed in the country. “For all practical purposes we met a state with a decayed infrastructure, dysfunctional workforce and a deeply despondent and traumatised populace. There was hardly any single motorable road across the state. The state capital of Owerri, in particular, was littered with unmotorable roads and dilapidated government buildings. The civil service was a good example of a disoriented and directionless institution with no regards for regulations and due process.  “As a consequence, the productivity and reputation of the Civil Service dropped to zero. For a state like Imo that was renowned for its efficient and reputable civil service this collapse was a major dent on our pride and reputation. “The general populace, dismayed by the inexplicable failure of government, relapsed into utter despondency and hopelessness, like sheep without Shepherd.  Yes, the situation was that bad. “The situation was made worse by the fact that we had no handover note, and there was nobody to ask questions about government’s assets and liabilities. We were faced with a dead end on arrival.  “Our situation was worse than talking to the deaf and dumb. It can only be comparable to the ordeal of someone groping in the dark in search of a pin. Yes, it was that daunting.  But we refused to be deterred.  Uzodimma, however, expressed delight that his administration has almost achieved all he promised the people during his campaign. “Beyond that, I can boldly tell you that after three years of painstaking efforts at the pursuit of our 3R mantra encapsulated in Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Recovery, everything is turning around for good in our state. Now, we can all proudly declare that we are the sons and daughters of a state, created to make life better for Imo people. My esteemed Ndi-Imo, it will take more than a broadcast to exhaust our achievements in all the sectors, including agriculture’, housing, sports and many others where we have recorded very impressive achievements. Feel free anytime to go over to the Ministry of Information and Strategy to obtain a copy of our handbook containing detailed sectoral breakdown of our achievements in three years. “Suffice it to say at this point that we have done quite well and I have kept faith with my covenant with God and my social contract with Imo people. After three years in office I have had neither scandal nor an indictment.  No one has been able to point accusing fingers at me that I stole Imo People’s money or pilfered our common patrimony.  All that the opposition has been accusing me of is about insecurity in the state, yet they are behind the insecurity,” Uzodimma stated.