From Fred Ezeh, Abuja Professional bodies in Nigeria’s health sector, notably the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), Association of Nurses and Midwives, Ophthalmologists, and Oncologists, among several others, have raised the alarm that Nigeria might face a manpower crisis soon due to rising cases of the mass exodus of qualified professionals (Japa) in the health sector. The professional bodies operating under the platform of Healthcare Transformation Coalition (HTC) declared that the situation has assumed national emergency status, hence, the government is required to urgently take necessary actions and steps that would discourage a mass exodus of qualified health professionals from the system. The professional bodies, in a communique released at the end of a symposium in Abuja, at the weekend, declared that it’s time to reposition the health care delivery system in Nigeria, suggesting that health should be on the political agenda of the incoming government. They confirmed that they have begun the process of setting agenda for the incoming administration that will commence on May 29th, 2023, with the symposium and other engagements that would come afterwards. They suggested that the new government should take a holistic approach to addressing the challenges confronting the sector through a health sector reform bill that will take cognisance of all existing health institutions and agencies, with the aim of making them more efficient in line with current realities. The professional bodies, however, vowed to push for increased funding for the healthcare sector to a minimum of 10 per cent in order to make significant progress with Universal Healthcare Coverage (UHC), in addition to the implementation of national health programme packages to protect against catastrophic health expenditures. They also suggested increased investment in digital technology as a critical element to achieving universal healthcare coverage, and other innovative ways of funding and attracting funding to the health sector. Secretary of the HTC, John Oko, told journalists at the symposium, that the professional bodies were determined to take steps and actions that would herald significant changes, positive ones, in the health care service delivery in Nigeria. He said: “The decisions taken at the symposium would be packaged and presented to the incoming administration. We won’t stop there, there will be a close follow-up to ensure that our suggestions and recommendations are implemented. We are key stakeholders in the health sector and should be taken seriously whenever we make recommendations.” Meanwhile, former Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Jide Idris, in his remarks, made reference to several innovations that were introduced in Lagos State health care system which helped, significantly, to boost health care service delivery in Lagos State, suggesting to other states to understudy the health care system of Lagos and domesticate it.