From David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi A popular priest and General Overseer of Mount Zion Faith Global Libertion Ministries Inc, Bishop Abraham Udeh(a.k.a) By Fire By Fire, Nnewi, Anambra State has provided a recipe for peace to reign in South East. Bishop Udeh said in his New Year message that step number one should be unconditional release of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. He said that any People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Governor that decamped to the All Progressives Congress (APC) still on seat should be impeached, while those not on seat should be sanctioned. ” A court of competent jurisdiction had earlier given a judgment for Kanu to be released, why should he stay a day further in detention after that judgment, ” the priest queried. He insisted that the Supreme Court of Nigeria should revisit within this year, without further delay, the judgment that made Hope Uzodima the Governor of Imo State to reverse itself in favour of Hon. Emeka Ihedioha of the PDP as Governor. Bishop Udeh said that the APC deserved no further chance in Nigeria to form governement at any level. He alleged that the party had worked against democracy in Nigeria for the past eight years of its control at the Federal level and some States with a rising increase in security challenges including kidnapping and economic strangulation. “Nnamdi Kanu has the support of the Hebrew’s God and the God of the Igbo is also behind him. They cannot kill him. “The United Nations is the one working against the sovereignty of Biafra because of the oil deposits in the land of Biafra. They don’t want the Igbo to enjoy the oil deposits in Igboland. Britain, US, Russia and China as countries are working against Biafra sovereignty, too. “They take delivery of Nigeria’s oil on a daily basis at the expense of those who should enjoy the deposits. Foreigners are sucking Nigeria dry through oil, ” the Bishop alleged. He declared that it had been revealed to him in a prophesy that six months of an Igboman as President, Nigeria would turn around for a great achievement. He warned Prophet Ayodele who he alleged prophesied against the Labour Party Presidential candidate, Mr Peter Obi not to see Obi again in his prophesy. “Never prophesy against Peter Obi again otherwise I will face him spiritually, ” he warned. He said that nemesis was facing all Federal Ministers who he insisted could only be free, if they returned any embezzled fund. “I see vultures hovering over their heads unless they vomit what they have embezzled. They should return everything to President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration before it’s too late for them, ” he said. The Bishop warned the Federal Government to withdraw completely from membership of the Organization of Islamic Council (OIC), saying that many Christians were in the know that Nigeria had achieved membership of the OIC secretly.