By Chinelo Obogo Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Nigeria’s aviation industry has ranked third in complaints received by the Federal Com- petition, Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) in 2022, the agency has revealed. The agency received 674 complaints about the sector, while the Financial services ranked first with 5,709 complaints, followed by the electricity and power with 3,293. Tele- communications came fourth with 605 and E-commerce 508. Others are; electrical electronics, 415,food and beverages, 222, satellite/cable services, 122, postal/courier services, 71, road transport, 69, land / construction, 65, real estate/mortgages 63, health services 52, education 29 and others. The total complaints received by the commission in its headquarters and across zonal offices was 13, 580 from Janaury-December, 2022. Sectoral analysis of complaints resolved shown that, out of the total number of 13,580, 3,327 complaints were resolved. Compared to 2021, the Commission received 10,178 complaints and resolved 1990. Financial services also topped the list with 2,736 complaints followed by electricity/power with 3043, telecommunications, 510, aviation, 459 and electrical/electronics 502. Director Operations, FC- CPC, Dr. Adamu Abdullahi, who spoke on the statistics, said most of the complaints received were on delays, cancellations, pilfered baggage, lost baggage, airport experience, general condition of the terminals, cooling system and discourteous service among others. According to him, the complaints were lodged on their websit and were essentially on delays, cancellation, lost and pilfered baggage. “Log in, give us the complaints and there is a prompt that will tell you to give the type of complaints off course all your details are there, the details of the channel solved, your own personal details, phone numbers we can get back to you. Immediately a response is generated that gives you your number, the number of your complaints which you can now use to go ahead and always find out how far the commission has gone in resolving your complaint. Off course you can call through the phone and give your complaint or through normal mail as hard copy you can send your complaint to the FCCPC,” he said.  Dr. Abdullahi said, they have an understanding with aviation and whenever they receive complaints that has to do with the sector they  pass it and give a time limit  within which a response is expected.  He expressed displeasure on the failure of airlines to let their passengers know if there is a problem. He then revealed that, currently the Commission is working on a Memorandum of Understanding, MoU with the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) and all sectors of consumer protection because they have the core competency and the laws to address their sectors. ‘’Most times if you explain to passenger what is happening they can understand but the problem is, operators don’t get out and tell the public what is actually going on with their operations. ‘’You buy a ticket you come and sit in the airport hours unending, you don’t even get any sort of information on the status of your flight and that really angers passengers. if you normally carry them along and tell them, these are the challenges that you are facing, it normally bring down the tempers and that is always what we encourage our service providers to do as in the airlines. ‘’We are ready as some sectors have already joined on that platform so that complaints about shipping now that we already have an MoU with the Nigeria Shippers Council goes to the Council, same for others. We are in the process of signing that MoU. ‘’We already have an understanding with aviation, whenever we have any complaints pertaining to aviation, we normally pass it to aviation and give them a time limit,” he said.