By Emmanuella Nkemchor Silverbird Galleria, Victoria Island, Lagos was the place to be from December 2-3, 2022 as Kingdom Film Festival (KFF), which was founded to create awareness, promote and celebrate films produced by Nigerian Christians, held amidst fanfare and razzmatazz. According to the organiser, Getinspired Network, an outfit that promotes the art of filmmaking as a tool for spreading the gospel, KFF is an annual event “aimed at promoting films made by Christians to be exhibited at the cinema, as well as encourage the filmmakers to be professional.” With the theme: ‘Kingdom Film Makers and New Media’, the maiden edition of the festival had as keynote speaker, Dr. Chida Maduekwe, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Film Corporation, and was centered on five important aspects: Production and Distribution, Strategic Positioning and Collaboration, Funding of Your Kingdom Film Projects and Branding, and Representation of the Kingdom through Film on the Mountain of Influence.  During the two-day festival, speakers and filmmakers shared their experiences with attendees to help broaden their knowledge, network and collaborate towards building an ecosystem for Christian filmmakers. Organised in partnership with Dublin Smartphone Film Festival, an online training was held prior to the festival for budding smartphone filmmakers in Nigeria, and it had over 100 people participating in the training hosted by Rob, Festival Director at Dublin Smartphone Film Festival. A major highlight of the festival was the selection and screening of movies shot with smartphones, which showcased the creativity of the filmmakers. While winners were awarded cash prizes, participants also went home with products courtesy Lontor Nigeria. Another major highlight was the premiere and screening of Mount Zion feature length movie titled, 30 Pieces. Aside this, Pastor Mike Bamiloye and wife, Pastor (Mrs) Gloria Bamiloye, founders of Mount Zion Films, were recognised and given awards as pioneers of the Christian film movement in Nigeria.  Hosted by Ewoma Luther-Abegunde, Festival Director, the event had speakers like Femi Odugbemi, Doris Ariole, Laju Iren, Bukola Ogunsola, Nodash Adekunle, Damilola Bamiloye, Shawn Faqua, Femi Adisa, and Serah Donald Onyeachor. They spoke on such topics as Breaking Stereotypes in Storytelling for Kingdom Filmmakers, Channeling Your Creativity Through the Power of the Holy Spirit, Funding Kingdom Film Projects, and The Walk of Faith as a Faith-based Producer. There were also panel sessions on Skit Making as a Niche for Kingdom Advancement, Highlights with the Anoramedia Team, and Cinematography and Power of Storytelling.  Kingdom Film Festival was supported by Getinspired Network, Del York Creative Academy, Silverbird Cinema, Smooth FM, RCCG Province 14, RCCG The Brooks, FLA, Lontor Nigeria, Tower of David, Solomon Porch, X2Dtv, GospelExperience, Selah Arik, and STV.