By Moses Akaigwe Organisers of the annual Nigeria Auto Journalists Association (NAJA) have announced finalists for its 2022 Nigeria Auto Industry Awards scheduled for January 25, 2023 at Oriental Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos. At the end of every year, NAJA Auto Awards is held to celebrate auto brands across the entire auto value chain in Nigeria. A statement by the awards committee disclosed that dozens of distinguished automotive journalists from different mediums selected the finalists based on their evaluation of each eligible vehicle as part of their professional work. In one of the prime award categories, Nigeria’s first and so far the only indigenous auto manufacturing company, Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing Company Ltd (IVM), Nnewi, has been nominated alongside Mikano Motors Division, and GAC Motor, for the Assembly Plant-of-the-Year honour. In the Car-of-the-Year category, Suzuki S-Presso, GAC GS4 and Geely Coolray, will battle for the top prize to be presented at the night of the awards. Finalists for the 2022 awards in other categories have also been announced. In the Truck-of-the-Year category, the battle is straight between Sino truck Dangote, Shacman – TSS and JAC from Lanre Shittu. In the luxury car segment, Porsche, Mercedes and BMW models are the front runners. Elizade Autoland (JAC), Stallion Hyundai and CFAO will battle for the outstanding auto workshop honour. In the SUV category (compact), Kia Selto, Geely Coolray and GAC GS4 have been nominated. zFor Large SUV, Toyota Land Cruiser will lock horns with GAC GS8, BMW X7 and Range Rover (Autobiography). Toyota Hilux, Mitsubishi L200 and Ford Ranger will battle for the Pickup-Truck-of–the-Year award. Lanre Shittu (JAC truck), TSS (Shacman) and Dangote Sinotruck will also battle again for the truck plant of the year award. Giving insights into the nominees, Chairman of the 2022 Award Committee, Rasheed Bisiriyu, said all vehicles nominated in the various categories represent exceptional value and designs. “We are using our respected, trusted platform to recognise and acknowledge best-performing brands in different segments and categories across the entire auto value chain.” According to him, the award event, which has now become a major industry show, celebrates and rewards automotive excellence. He also revealed that Founder/CEO of ABC Transport, Frank Nneji, and Deputy Managing Director of CFAO Motors, Mr. Kunle Jaiyesimi would be honoured with the Auto Personality of the year in recognition of their immense contributions to the development of Nigeria’s auto industry. Director General of the National Automotive Design and Development Council, Mr. Aliyu Jelani, will also be honoured as Promoter of Local Content in auto assembling in Nigeria. Late Chairman of Globe Motors, William Anumudu, and Charity Maduka, the late wife of Coscharis Group president, Cosmas Maduka, are to be honoured  posthumously at the event. In his own comment, Chairman of NAJA, Mike Ochonma, said the auto journalist body has always believed in bringing together all the stakeholders in the automotive sector to build a stronger community and strengthen consumers’ confidence and trust in the industry and their brands. “I would like to congratulate all the nominees for the 2022 edition and look forward to their presence at the grand ceremony holding in Lagos on January 25,” he added.