From Gyang Bere, Jos Plateau State Governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr. Nentawe Yilwatda has put in place strategy to use people on Diaspora for the development of Plateau. Yilwatda disclosed this during a Governorship Debate organized by Plateau Debate Guild (PDG), held at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies NIPSS, Kuru, Jos. In a press statement signed by the Spokesman for the Generation Next Campaign Council, Shittu Bamaiyi said Yilwatda revealed that he would engage those in diaspora in creating markets abroad for the state’s agricultural products and mineral resources from Plateau state. He explained that he would rather use the people in diaspora more in creating markets as well as as promoting the rich endowments of the state abroad. He hammered on the need to provide energy for the industrialisation of the state by dredging the kurra water falls as well as develop the new falls sites in kwall and that of Pankshin south for adequate power supply to attract investors . Yilwatda who spoke on tourism, said the state is blessed with High altitudes which are very good for the training of long distance runners and also galvanise the over fifty cultural festivals that are abound in the state to attract tourists to the state. He said the much talked about poor financial status of the state by the other candidates cannot stop him from moving the state forward through an experienced, exposed and intellectual leadership. Nentawe said if elected he would explore the abundant solid minerals resources through joint venture agreement with international partners for the state to maximally benefit from its resources. On the plight of the persons with disabilities, Nentawe revealed to the administration of the audience that apart from schooling with some of them in Gindiri Boys Secondary school,he was one of committee members that drew the laws and procedures in the electoral act for them to participate in the electoral process in the country. He also noted that Plateau state has been contributing significantly to the housing needs in the country but that it has not benefitted from the scheme as expected. Nentawe promised to improve on the revenue base of the state by widening and deepening the economy through creating special fund to empower the youth , women and people with disabilities. He revealed further that to provide good and also reduce the cost of governance,he would provide loans to senior civil servants with cars rather than spending huge sums of money for the purchase of government vehicles.