From Gyang Bere, Jos Plateau State Governorship Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Barr. Caleb Mutfwang has assured Plateau citizens that his administration will protect Plateau citizens from the prevailing security challenges that has claimed several lives and displaced dozens of people. He noted that he will equipped the vigilante groups, hunters and the state security outfit “Operation Rainbow” to protect rural communities from bandits. Mutfwang disclosed this during a town hall meeting with PDP stakeholders, Business Community and Development Associations in Bassa Local Government Area of Plateau State. “My priority as a Governor is to protect citizens of Plateau State. I will protect and defend Plateau, I will not be a Governor that will sell the birthright of Plateau citizens for any reason, I will not disappoint you if you vote for me.” He assured citizens of the State that he would hit the ground running to deliver good governance and promote unity among the people from day one. Mutfwang urged the people to vote for him and all other candidates of the PDP, saying PDP will win the 2023 elections convincingly. “Plateau shall recover, I am here in Bassa which has been one of the most loyal local government areas to PDP, Bassa has a special place in the structure of the PDP in 2023. The reason for this meeting is to reassure you that PDP is the Party, the 2023 elections are between the PDP and others, and PDP is the Party of the State. We made mistakes in the past but we have learnt our lessons. “The time is now to right the wrong, Plateau is our heritage and must be preserved. We have come to solicit your support, the time of indecision is over, the time has come for you to decide to vote for PDP. “All our candidates are candidates most desirable. I know the problem of insecurity that has bedeviled the local government area but I assure you that I will be a governor to all the Plateau people. “Plateau won’t be put to shame if you vote for me. I will promote unity in the State, the barriers we have will be pulled down, Plateau is too small to be divided, I will hit the ground running and Plateau would prosper again…” The State Party Chairman, Chris Hassan handed over the Party’s flag to Happiness Akawu, the wife of the deceased candidate, Matthew Akawu who died after winning the Party’s primary election to contest the Pengana State Constituency. She was earlier affirmed as the flag bearer of the Party by the delegates. Hassan also received 207 people who decamped from other political parties to the PDP in the local government area. The Director General of the Atiku-Okowa/Mutfwang-Piyo campaign council, Chief Letep Dabang also urged the gathering which consisted of politicians, development associations, the business community, and others to vote for the PDP in the 2023 general elections.