By Rita Okoye  Sandra Okunzuwa is a Nollywood actress and producer. Her latest film, Enitan was one of the movies screened at the Africa International Film Festival (AFRIFF). In this interview, the Edo State-born screen diva shares her sexual abuse story, how she pulled through the trauma and her expectations from potential suitor. Can you tell us more about your movie Enitan? Enitan is a story of a young married woman who doesn’t get sexual satisfaction from her husband alone. She goes out every night to look for ‘Area Boys’ to gang rape her for her to feel satisfied sexually. This continues until her husband catches her, and the story begins to unveil. What’s the story about and what’s the inspiration behind it? I got the inspiration way back from the law school when our lecturer took us on a rape and mental health topic, and the trauma that goes with the act. What were the challenges encountered during the making of Enitan? The character went through a lot physically, mentally and sexually. It was a challenging role for me. In the process of filming the character, I had to work with real ‘Area Boys’ and it wasn’t easy. I had to put myself completely in Enitan’s shoes. I had to visit different spiritualists for cleansing. The bathing at the beach while filming was one of the most challenging parts, because I kept on praying and praying. What did you do after the beach scenes; did you go for special prayers? I didn’t go for special prayers, but my colleagues gathered and prayed for me.  What did you do to get the help needed? I prayed, talked to close friends about it and they helped talked me out of it. But I kept reminding myself that it’s a movie and I am different from the character. Rape and mental health are strong issues in Nigeria at the moment, have you ever been a victim? Sexually abused as a kid? Yes. Mental health victim? Yes. In the society we live in, people don’t talk about mental health issues; they expect you to visit your pastor and you will be alright. As an actor, it is not easy. First, you will have to embody the life of different characters and personalities, the good, the bad and the terrible. Despite what you are going through personally, you have to wear a smile and keep entertaining people because that is what people expect from you. I think there should be a special therapist for entertainers, because it is not easy. Giving out joy to people and lacking where to fill up from. This would have been a nightmare, how did you cope? Yeah, it was a nightmare but later I became alright.  Was he your relative? No, not a relative. What general message is Enitan passing to viewers? That most people are broken; that carrying about baggage from the past, if you don’t talk about it so you can get help, you will keep carrying it about until it destroys you.  By sharing your problems with your partner, you can get help. Lastly, being traumatized isn’t a spiritual issue; it is a mental issue that needs a therapist. What’s the most exciting thing about being an actress? The most exciting thing about being an actress is that I get to be different people at different times. I feel happy when I play some certain roles. Lastly, I get to teach people lessons through my movies. What has fame deprived you of? People knowing me for me and not judging me. As a grown woman, fully aware of her rights, did you confront your abuser? Yes, I did. It was generalised and I was stigmatised.  Did that experience make you resent men or become afraid of marriage? As a matter of fact, I am not afraid of marriage. Marriage is indeed a beautiful thing when you are with your right partner. I will get married to my perfect partner someday. Before, it (the experience) kind of made me resent men, but I have healed from it and moved on. I am a lot better now. So, what kind of man would you love to marry? A man who is loving, caring, patient, kind, not controlling, not abusive, trusting, hardworking and supportive, and above all loves God. Do you see yourself marrying a colleague? Not really. What are the changes you would love to see in Nollywood? For actors and crew members to be well paid, and even given royalties. For the government to build a well-structured and fully serviced film village. Also, movie projects should have more support and funding from banks and the government After Enitan, what’s next for you? I have other projects coming up as a producer and actor. I have ‘Something Like Gold’ produced by my production company, Greenwealth Production, in collaboration with Filmtrybe and directed by Kayode Kasum. Also, I have ‘The Switch’ and ‘Sarah Bind’ produced by Greenwealth Production. The company was registered in 2021, and so far, it has six movies to its credit. You produced and played the lead role in Enitan. How did you pull that through? Yes I did, it wasn’t easy but the director, Theo Okpala and the associate producer, Dan Chris was quite supportive. How do you deal with funding? For now, it’s all personal funding and support from friends and family. But producing ‘Something Like Gold’ was the hardest, it required high funding that I had to take a loan. What were the reactions of your parents after you left law for filmmaking? Like every regular African parent, they would wish I practiced as a lawyer. But I had to prove to them that I’m passionate about entertainment. So, they allowed me to do what makes me happy, and were supportive. How was your growing up like? Were you born with a silver spoon? No, I wasn’t born with a silver spoon. My parents were average class and super hard working business people. I worked my way up with their hardworking drive I have emulated. As a child, I didn’t have all that I wanted and needed, which is why I am working so hard so my kids won’t lack anything. What would you do if your man exhibits traits of violence and you love him dearly? That’s the breaking point of relationship for me; I will leave.