By Lukman Olabiyi The Yoruba rich cultural identity and values were recently displayed in far away Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada at the celebration of Asa Day. It was organised by Asa Day Worldwide Inc. in collaboration with the Federal Government, monarchs, Nollywood stars, musicians and cultural troupes. Asa Day is meant to halt the slow death of native language, art and culture of people from western part of Nigeria. President and founder of Asa Day Worldwide Inc, Prince Joel Olaniyi Oyatoye, told Daily Sun: “It is also an attempt to project rich culture, art and values of Yoruba to the world, beyond the shore of Nigeria.” Onipokia of Ipokia, Oba Yisa Olusola Olaniyan led other custodians of Yoruba culture. National President, Theatre Arts and Motion Pictures Practitioners Association of Nigeria (TAMPAN), Bolaji Amusan, aka “Mr Latin,” led other Nollywood stars and celebrities including Jide Kosoko, Elizabeth Ogunsola, Nike Peller, Olori Aduke, Nikki Spooner, Prince George Peter and Ade Ladeinde. The Federal Government delegation was led by Nigeria’s High Commissioner to Canada, Adeyinka Asekun to the event. The theme was, “Building a Peaceful “Environment and Unity.” It bordered on storytelling, stage plays, music, dance, traditional drumming, fashion and foods. Oyatoye said: “Culture is very unique, and it speaks to our hearts. When we started Asa Day in 2018, we knew we had many things to cover. We hoped in God and good people in our community. “Asa Day projects our culture, art and values. Just as the Yoruba tribe spreads across continents of the world, we intend to wake up to our responsibilities to preserve our cultural and traditional legacies. Life is meaningless without culture. That’s why we all need culture to shape our lives. “Every tribe and race has its own culture and its identity. It’s unfortunate today that most of Yoruba cultures are dying. Many of us have contributed to this in many ways, and we pretend it is normal. “Any society that lost it culture should be ready for crisis because lost of identity is a major problem. If we lose our culture, we will lose critical aspect of education and authenticity. “If we lose culture, we will lose peace and unity. Culture is what brings us together. We cannot  do it alone. We need to a build a peaceful environment for the growth of the economy and sustainable development. “Language, tradition, artefacts and other things that identify us are heritage preservation tools. Here is one of the reasons we established a cultural museum in Winnipeg that is open to the public for free. “It is for free. We are doing our best to make everything available for the purpose of education, tourism, research, the establishment of facts and other activities that require better understanding of Yoruba.” Asekun said: “Cultural diplomacy is a cardinal aspect of Nigeria’s foreign policy. It is our expectation that this event will showcase the very rich and diverse cultural heritage of the Yoruba of Nigeria here in Canada and serve to deepen the existing people to people ties between Canada and Nigeria.” Premier of Manitoba, Heather Stefanson, said: “Since the launch of the event in Winnipeg in 2018, Asa Day has become a wonderful opportunity to experience, appreciate and promote the Yoruba culture and heritage, as well as the remarkable contribution that members of Manitoba’s Yoruba community make to our community and province. “The staging of an event as important as Asa Day requires the commitment of a group of dedicated volunteers. Volunteers are truly the backbone of our community and I want to thank all those who have dedicated so much time to making this event a reality.” Mayor of Winnipeg, Scott Gillingham, spoke about the growing influence and presence of immigrant communities such as the Yorubas as being part of the growth of Winnipeg.  He lauded efforts to preserve the culture and heritage of the Yoruba tribe for the young people who were growing up far away from their roots. President of Nigerian Association of Manitoba Incorporated (NAMI), Wilson Akinwale, showered encomiums on Asa Day for projecting and promoting Yoruba culture, art and values. He appreciated the spirit of Nigeria within the members of the Nigerian community in Manitoba. Prior to the grand finale, Asa Museum was commissioned. It is strictlyfor documentation, preservation and collection of Yoruba culture, artefacts, research and others in Canada. A Fuji musician, Mudashir Ajani, aka Safejo Amama, performed. at the event.