From Noah Ebije, Kaduna Northern States Christian Elders’ Forum (NOSCEF) has expressed anger over renewed killings and kidnapping in the region, as well as money politics being propagated by politicians towards the forthcoming general election in the country. The forum said no Nigerian should be disenfranchised because of security challenges. It also expressed concern over the incessant attacks and killings of Christian clerics and others in the North. The elders said they were surprised at the deteriorating situation arising in many parts of the northern zone, and called on governments, at the state and federal levels, to give security forces the needed support to sustain the push against insurgency. In a statement, yesterday, Chairman of NOSCEF, Ejoga Inalegwu, alleged that politicians have embarked on distributing money to buy votes, but advised the electorate to be prepared to vote out those propagating politics of exclusion and make it unattractive for the future. “NOSCEF, again, expresses concern over the incessant killings in the North, specifically targeting Christian clerics. Communities in Southern Kaduna and Niger States being the most affected. With the improved surveillance and deterrent measures being taken by the security forces in tackling the insecurity, we are surprised at the deteriorating situation arising in these areas.  “We call on the governments, at the state and federal levels, to give the security forces the needed support to sustain the push against the insurgency plaguing the nation, especially as we approach the 2023 elections, so that no section of the country is disenfranchised on grounds of insecurity.  “We were excited when politicians were able to make night visits to areas of hitherto high insecurity only to at the same time be greeted with sustained attacks against communities in Southern Kaduna at about the same time. “As the 2023 elections approach, we urge parents to counsel their wards against making themselves available to be used as political thugs to cause violence during the coming elections.  “We urge Nigerians to disappoint politicians who in their desperate bid to win elections, at all costs, embarked on divisive politics of exclusion, in spite of the pleas of patriotic Nigerians. We plead with Nigerians to, with one voice, through the ballot box send the message that we reject those who believe that winning an election is more important than the harmonious existence of the nation.  “Remember the money they are using to buy votes and make people compromise their conscience is our money. Whether you collect or don’t collect their ill-gotten money, be prepared to vote out those propagating politics of exclusion and make it unattractive for the future. “We urge all registered voters to collect their PVCs to be able to exercise their voting rights in the elections. “Our hearts go out to the families of Rev. Father Achi who was burnt alive in Niger State, his assistant who was shot, the many killed recently in the Kagoro attacks, the 25 people kidnapped during church service yesterday, January 15, 2023 in Katsina State and a host of others in the recent past. We pray for comfort for the families of those killed, the Church and God’s intervention for those in kidnapper’s dens and quick recovery for injured,” NOSCEF said in the statement.