From Gyang Bere, Jos A mammoth crowd turned out on Saturday in Pankshin Local Government Area of Plateau State to expressed strong support to the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, his running mate, Ifeanyi Okowa and the state Governorship candidate, Barr. Caleb Mutfwang for the 2023 General Elections. Former Nigerian Ambassador to Switzerland, Amb. Yahaya Kwande who cheered up the crowd admonished them to get their PVCs and vote 5/5 to return PDP to power to end insecurity and hardship in Nigeria and Plateau State. Kwande disclosed this on Saturday during the flag off of Atiku/Mutfwang campaign council for Plateau Central, held in Pankshin Local Government Area of Plateau State. He expressed satisfaction over the turn out and said it is a pointer to the fact that PDP has won the elections, waiting for swearing-in on the 29 May, 2023. “Anywhere we go, we discover that the election is already concluded. I am happy because Atiku Abubakar is a President in waiting and Barr. Caleb Mutfwang is Governor in waiting in Plateau State.” Former Governor of Plateau State, Sen. Jonah David Jang PDP will run an inclusive governance that was why the party picked a woman as running mate. He reiterated the fact that Plateau has never lost presidential election and said the state made a mistake in 2015 and urged them to vote PDP all through in the next elections. He noted that the party is intact, saying all those who contested governorship, Senatorial, House of Representatives and State House of Assembly party primaries are all together working for the victory of the party. Plateau State Governorship candidate, Barr. Caleb Mutfwang, who led the crowd into a session where the entire Plateau Central made a resolved to vote PDP 5/5 in the 2023 elections. He appreciated PDP leaders and elders for standing firm to ensure that the Governorship seat returned to Plateau Central. Former Nigeria Ambassador to Namibia, Amb. Bagudu Hirlse said Nigerians are tired of bad governance and it is time to return PDP back to power in 2023. He noted that PDP is well prepared to take over government, saying that Plateau people are intact to vote massively for PDP. The Director General of Atiku/Mutfwang campaign council, Hon. Latep Dabang said voting for Atiku and Mutfwang will bring down the wall of insecurity, poverty and bad governance in Nigeria and Plateau State. He said that he moved round to campaign for APC in 2014 which culminated to the victory of APC in 2015 and regretted his action because the party has failed Nigerians and Plateau State that was why he has returned to PDP to take back power. Dabang said what the APC has done is worst than what the party was struggling to change and urged Plateau people to come out enmass and vote PDP in the next elections.