From David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The General Overseer of Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye has dedicated a branch of his church at Utuh in Nnewi South Local Government Area of Anambra and declared it a miracle center. The multimillion naira new church christened Divine Light Parish which one of the Pastors from Utuh community but based in Lagos, Simon Aranonu single-handedly built for the Redeemed has a clinic and Pastors residence within the premises. While dedicating the church, Pastor Adeboye commended Aranonu for spending his resources to build the church for spread of the gospel. The General Overseer decreed that the church would serve as a miracle center for the worshippers and all the community members that would have access to the church. He prayed that anybody who came with any problem to the church would receive the solution. He also prayed for longevity of every member of Aranonu’s community because of the presence of the church. Pastor Adeboye said for the church to have a clinic cited in it meant that anyone with any sickness that came to the church would receive spiritual and physical healing to go home with perfect health. He directed people present at the dedication to ask God for anything that they needed and thereafter offered a special prayer for Pastor Aranonu. One of the relations of Aranonu, Evangelist Isaac Anyarowu revealed that Pastor Aranonu had a revelation to build the church twenty one years ago which he said later came to fruition.  He said that Pastor Aranonu who he noted never liked to talk to the press over what he had done, spent millions of naira to get the project executed which he said never lasted up to a year before completion. Anyarowu expressed optimism that the church would help to win many converts and redirect many youths and adults who had given their lives to cultism and idol worship which, according to him, had become a common phinomenon within all the communities close to the church. A senior Pastor at the ceremony who gave his name as Akolade Shegun explained that the General Overseer had instructed his Pastors to endeavour to build local churches at their native homes to make it easy for their fellowship when they visit home. In attendance at the event were the traditional ruler of Utuh community, His Royal Highness, Igwe Peter Ilomuanya; the traditional ruler of Akwaihedi, Igwe O.C.Onebunne; the Igwe of Ukpor community, Igwe F.N.Oyimmadu, among others.