By Chinyere Anyanwu and Lukman Olabiyi Lagos State Government has declared four days work-free for civil servants to enable them obtain their permanent voter cards (PVCs) from their respective local government/local council development areas across the state. The announcement was contained in a statement by the Head of Service, Hakeem Muri-Okunola, yesterday. The work-free days would commence on Tuesday, January 24, and end on Friday, January 27, 2023, for different grade levels of workers in the public service. January 24 would be for grade levels 01, 03, 07 and 15; January 25 for grade levels 02, 04, 08 and 13; Thursday for grade levels 05, 09, 12, and 17 and Friday for grade levels 06, 10, 14 and 16. He added that the work-free days were approved by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for the public servants to collect their voter cards from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in order to participate actively in the forthcoming February, March polls in the country. According to Muri-Okunola, “consequent upon the extension of the collection of PVCs by INEC, it is hereby notified for the general information that all public servants who are yet to collect their PVCs from designated INEC centres are encouraged to do so before Sunday, January 29, 2023, as it is a civic responsibility to vote. “To this end, Mr. Governor has graciously approved a four work-free day to enable public servants to collect their PVCs from their respective local government/local council development areas,” he said. Muri-Okunola, however, urged accounting officers to excuse their officers in respective grade levels on the designated days. “Consequently, accounting officers and all public servants are to ensure compliance while giving this circular the service-wide publicity it deserves,” he said. The state government, during the voter registration did the same, declaring work-free days for its workers to complete their registration for voter cards. Meanwhile, Governor Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, disclosed his administration is already working on salary and allowance increment for the personnel of the state waste management, particularly the street sweepers. Governor Sanwo-Olu made this known while addressing members of the Association of Waste Managers of Nigeria at a mega rally organised by the union to endorse All Progressive Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and the governor’s re-election bid. Announcing upcoming salary increment to the union members at Mobolaji Johnson Arena formerly known as Onikan Stadium, Sanwo-Olu assured them their welfares were his government priority because of the role they are playing in the state. He commended the union for deeming fit to reciprocate the kind gesture of his administration and Tinubu’s initiative which paved way for the union to contribute its quota to the society. According to him, the support by waste managers becomes imperative as Tinubu is the brain behind establishment of the Lagos State Waste Management Authority in Lagos, which many states in Nigeria have replicated.  Sanwo-Olu charged the union’s members not to stop by just endorsing Tinubu and him alone but to go to the grassroots to mobilise every eligible voters to vote for APC. The governor implored all eligible voters who registered for PVCs and yet to collect it, to take advantage of INEC extension date for collection of their PVCs. Deputy Governor, Obafemi Hamzat, who was also present at the rally, appreciated the crowd for their support as he urged them to vote wisely and ensure they pick up their PVCs ahead of the next month general elections He charged electorate to vote Tinubu because of his past record, experience, achievement and contribution to the development of Lagos State.