..says its leader still fed with only bread and water ..dying slowly from drug abuse   From Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has raised the alarm over the deteriorating health condition of its leader ,Nnamdi Kanu who is still being held in the Department of State Services(DSS). In its latest claim as contained in a statement by the spokesperson of the group,Emma Powerful,Kanu is alleged to be starved and only fed with bread and water as his meal daily. Also,Powerful said Kanu has not been allowed to be taken care of by his private doctors rather he was being treated with drugs procured for him . The situation Powerful further said has led to serious health challenges for Kanu. Enumerating other health challenges faced by Kanu,Powerful said “The secret police wants to eliminate Mazi Nnamdi Kanu through a silent and systematic process of gradual starvation of giving him only bread and water twice a day and drugs abuse by providing him insufficient medication for his known ailment while in their solitary confinement facility in Abuja. “Their intention is to  experiment and replicate the starvation of 1967-1970 on the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra. For the First time we have seen Nnamdi Kanu complained for his life. He complained very sadly that he is dying slowly. He also complained bitterly that the DSS has subjected him to drug abuse as medication required for two weeks are provided for only 8 days. “He complained that he hasn’t been allowed to see any doctor since second week of December 2022 and DSS has refused to take him to the doctor in spite of his deteriorating health. He says he feels his internal organs are badly affected yet the DSS have refused to take him to a hospital. “He also complained bitterly about pain and sound in his left ear where he was tortured in Kenya before being Extraordinarily Renditioned to Nigeria. “Our leader complained that if he lies down whatever he ate comes out from his mouth. He also said his intestines are bringing odours from his mouth. He says he is afraid he may not survive it but God Almighty Chukwu Okike Abiama will help him to survive it.  “He also complained about poor feeding which is worsening his health. Most times he is fed with only bread morning and night as DSS said feeding him is getting too expensive. “It’s on record that DSS refused One Million Naira (N1,000,000) that IPOB leadership gave them to provide adequate medication and feeding to our leader. It’s obvious that our leader has been poisoned by DSS and allowed to die gradually”. Powerful stated. However,Powerful added that “Irrespective of his current ordeal our leader expressed confidence in the Biafran Struggle and charged the members of this noble movement to remain resolute and never engage in any form of criminality”.  IPOB therefore called on International communities such as United Nations(UN) European Union(EU), Economic Community of West African States(ECOWAS), Amnesty International among others to prevail on the Nigeria government to release Kanu.