Popular gospel artiste, Testimony Jaga, has pulled off the first ever street concert where lots of gift items like Toyota Camry cars, mini buses, tricycles, grinding machines, deep freezers, generators etc. were given out to promote and support the Alagbado community of Lagos. The concert tagged: ‘One Jesus, One Church, One Hallelujah’ and powered by Work and Play, commenced with the gathering of over 3,000 children, who were fed and given stationeries like exercise books, pens, crayons etc. This was followed by other activities like boxing tournaments for women,  children and those in the middle weight category, and witnessed by over 4,000 spectators. The winners of the competition were presented with gold, silver and bronze medals, as well as cash and belt to the champion. Some of the boxers were offered scholarships. According to the convener, Testimony Jaga, the idea of the programme is to discover and catch them young to use their talent for Christ. “A female boxer was discovered at the last boxing tournament, she represented Nigeria at the last Olympics and won a silver medal,” he said. After the children’s party and boxing competition, the event was officially declared open by legendary juju musician, Evangelist Ebenezer Obey, who thrilled the audience with some of his evergreen songs. “I am excited and will ever be grateful to my spiritual father, Rev. Dr Chris Oyakhilome, founder of Loveworld Nation Incorporated, who discovered my potential and has been supportive both physically, spiritually, emotionally and materially. “I promise to always give back to the society, to encourage and support the less privileged and those in need according to how God has laid the foundation and asked me to do,” Jaga stressed. Artistes that performed at the event included Woli Arole, Adeyinka Alaseyori, Bidemi OlaOba, Akpororo, Chigozie Wisdom, and Skillful Dancers. The event was rounded off with  prophetic declaration by a respected Man of God, Prophet Oladele of Genesis Church, Lagos. Most of the artistes at the show described the convener as a very humble, disciplined and goal getter man, who is a lover of God and community at large.