JOE EFFIONG, UYO Akwa Ibom State has emerged the cleanest state in Nigeria for the fifth consecutive time. The state commissioner for information and strategy,  Comrade Ini Ememobong who disclosed this in a post state executive council press release on Friday,  said the state Chairman of the Akwa Ibom State Waste Management and Environmental Protection Agency, Prince Akpan Ikim, had presented the award to Gov Udom Emmanuel at the state Executive Council (EXCO). The release  said Ikim assured Gov  Emmanuel that the consistent wins were due to his (the governor’s) untiring support to the agency..  “The Governor congratulated the agency for their diligence and hard work, which has resulted in the state winning the award for five years consecutively”. The release stated.. Reporting further on issues tackled at the EXCO meeting, the Information Commissioner  Made public Governor Udom Emmanuel’s task on members of his EXCO to put in more energy to conclude their ministerial assignments as the administration is winding down.. “Council approved the state’s participation in the State Action on Business Enabling Reforms(SABER). This programme will aid efficiency in land administration and increase efficiency and transparency in government to business services. “Award of contract for the construction of internal roads in Shelter Afrique Estate, Uyo.  “Council approved a memo to implement the Akwa Ibom State Social Investment and Poverty Alleviation Policy through the Akwa Ibom State Empowerment Programme. “The HC-Power and Petroleum Development informed council of the award of power distribution license to Ibom Utility Company. He assured that with this license, the state’s investment in power will be maximized to the benefit of the people and help the attainment of the Power for all aspiration of government. “HC-Education reported that the state scholarship awards had been concluded and 500 eligible students had received their cheques. “HC-Health reported that the work at the General Hospitals in Ukanafun and Etim Ekpo have reached advance stages and will soon be commissioned. “HC -Lands and Water Resources informed Council that the Governor had granted assent to the water Law which was passed by the House of Assembly. “HC-Labour and Manpower Planning was charged to ensure that Dakkada Skills Acquisition Center, Ikot Ada Idem commences fully within the next two months”. The release stated