From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan The presidential candidate of New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), Rabiu Kwankwaso, has enjoined Nigerians to shun issues of ethnic and religious politics, and elect the best among the candidates. He promised to  provide a purposeful leadership that will place Nigeria on the path of sustainable development if elected president of the country. Speaking at a presidential parley hosted by the South-West Development Stakeholders Forum (SWDSF) on Tuesday in Ibadan, he said Nigeria is at a stage, where a strong leadership is needed to unite the nation and ensure that the socio-economic and political challenges besetting the country. Kwankwaso, who was accompanied by his running mate,, Bishop Isaac Idahosa, and the party’s governorship candidate in Oyo State,  Chief Olukayode Popoola, assured Nigerians that his administration would job create opportunities, conducive environment for businesses to thrive, and promote stability. According to him, “Things have gone bad now. All those good things are not there. This is why we bring this new political party, NNPP. We did not only bring the party, but elected good candidates in all the states, particularly Oyo State. Popoola is our best.” Kwakwanso, who said only the best  can take the nation out of the present quagmire the country has been thrown into, noted that the time has come to have a strong leader, who can stand the test of challenges the nation is experiencing today.  He stated that the All Progressives Congress (APC) that has been administering the state within the past eight years, and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that governed Nigeria for 16 years, have failed, saying: “The status quo required change. The change is not only the platform, but the candidate. I think this is the time to have something new. This is the time to have strong people.  “People who can stand the test of challenges we have today. Now we need  a Nigerian who is credible, who has capacity and who has track record.” Kwakwanso further promised to give priority attention to education and security, adding that he would replicate in Nigeria the achievements he recorded when he was the governor of Kano State. He also promised to patronise local contractors.