From Olanrewaju Lawal Birnin Kebbi No fewer than 1,300 newly deployed Corps members of 2023 batch A stream 1 posted to serve in Kebbi State for one year mandatory service under the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) have taken the oath of service and sworn in at the permanent orientation camp, Dakingari,Suru Local Government Area of the state. The Chief Justice of the state, Justice Abubakar Umar represented by Justice Hassan Shehu Kuwa, performed the oath of office to the corps members. While declaring the camp open,Kebbi State Governor Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, assured the Corps members adequate security through out their service year. Bagudu, represented by the Deputy Governor,Col.(rtd) Samaila Yombe Dabai said”the government of Kebbi State will do everything within it’s capacity to ensure a conducive and secure environment during and after your orientation Course. “Kebbi State is peaceful,I have also directed various security agencies in the To doubles their efforts towards ensuring that adequate security meadures are put in place. I hereby urge you to be law abiding citizens and partners with Kebbi State to create a secure environment “. He added that ,the state will continue to do everything possible to improve their general welfare and well- being. Earlier,in her welcome address,Kebbi State Coordinator of NYSC,Mrs. Agatha Banki disclosed that 1,300 corps members have properly registered before the deadline at the orientation camp and appealed to the State Government to assist the camp in some of their challenges. “I humbly wish to make a passionate appeal and I bring to your notice,the orientation camp challenges and solicit your interventions in the following areas; the completion of male hotel 4 for Corps members as this will increase the capacity of Corps members at the orientation camp can host. “Also,the provision of additional Staff quarters as the Staff population has increased causing a shortage in accomodations. Low perimeter fence is major challenge in the area of security. We look forward to your kind consideration and response”, she said. Banki who charged the Corps members to continue to be discipline, relate well with other corps members and host community, said they must obey rules and regulations governing the NYSC,and officers of the camp.