…as The Lord’s Chosen set to hold crusade in Lagos Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. By GILBERT EKEZIE As The Lord’s Chosen Charismatic Revival Ministries (TLCCRM) is set to hold the 2023 two –day annual power packed international crusade on Saturday 4th and Sunday 5th February, 2023, General Overseer of the Church , Pastor Lazarus Muoka has admonished Nigerians not to exercise fears, as their sorrows will turn to joy soon. The interdenominational programme titled: From Sorrow to Joy, will take place at the Chosen Revival Ground, along Oshodi-Apapa Expressway, by Ijesha, Bus Stop, Lagos at 8am daily, Muoka said the programme is expected to help participants and entire Nigerians to shed-off the baggages of sorrow which were carried-over from the past years. In a statement issued by the Public Relations Officer of the Church, Pastor Louis Chidi, Muoka revealed that the crusade will also bring forth a spiritual elixir of complete joy in the lives of not only the participants, but that of Nigerians this year. He noted that through the programme, the traces of sorrow that have contributed to the cause of emotional, political and social stresses , will be no more be seen. “Yokes shall be broken; diseases shall be cured, sicknesses shall be healed and the afflicted shall be delivered. Above all , God shall release the dew of unspeakable blessing upon everyone, and all sorrows shall be turned to joy.” Muoka assured that no participant shall go home empty handed because God Almighty who has seen the hopelessness Nigerians are subjected to and has scheduled the crusade to turn all their sorrows to joy. “Assuredly, there shall be rain of blessing of joy. It does not matter the nature of sorrow someone is experiencing or how long the person has been in that sorrowful situation or who is behind it, the assurance is that God has set aside the two days to intervene in the affairs of His people , as He did in thebible days. “He will in the two days , arise even in the political, security and economic circumstances of Nigeria and douse the tension that has hitherto enveloped the horizon of the country.” According to the cleric, at the end of the crusade, all satanic induced tension that constituted sorrow, shall be no more. “I want to let you know that it is never the will of God that the nation should be under the present economic, social and political turmoil that have bedeviled it . But, through this programme , God’s intervention will bring about our deliverance.“He will do something new in the lives of participants and a new experience of peace and joy will come their way.” Muoka who will preside over the programme, said further that it will witness salvation, sanctification, Holy Ghost baptism,deliverances from spiritual limitation, demonic possession, barrenness of the womb, intellectual and financial barrenness. “It will also address physical challenges such as paralyses of all kinds, diseases, sicknesses, economic andpolitical problems. “As I prophetically lead the people to God, the supernatural anointing that accompanies my ministration , will break every yoke of the enemies that causes sorrow in their lives and their sorrow shall be turned to joy.” Considering the security challenges, the reknown Evangelist noted that digitalized security measures that will address any breach of peace have been put in place, and that the Church taskforce on security, in collaboration with other military and Para-military details will be working round the clock to ensure safety of the participants. “We have also made provision for free transportation that will convey people to the venue from any location within Lagos. “So, we are inviting all to come and witness the demonstration of God’s power that will turn their sorrow to joy. We are also calling on everyone, irrespective of their religious preferences or leanings to avail themselves of the opportunity to meet with the God of the Chosen that specializes in turning sorrow to joy. God has chosen that day to give joy to asmany as those who will come. “Matthew 11:28 says, “Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest”.