By Henry Uche  As part of its commitment to delight policyholders,  Sovereign Trust Insurance Plc, has given the assurance that 2023 will be mutually rewarding for all its individual or corporate clients as they would witness new ways of doing things in the nation’s insurance landscape in 2023 and beyond.  A statement by the Deputy General Manager- Corporate Communication & Investor Relations, Segun Bankole, confirmed that the Managing Director/CEO of the company, Olaotan Soyinka, made this known during the yearly open forum and thanksgiving breakfast retreat held at the company’s Head Office in Lagos recently.  The CEO who conveyed the session  urged members of staff and other senior management colleagues to re-double and rededicate their efforts to ensure that customers are kept satisfied at all times in the new year and beyond.  In his words, “We owe our customers the obligation to serve them better than ever so that they can keep coming back as we are in business because of them”.  He further stressed that the company will continually do all within its powers to ensure that the staff are constantly exposed to the best of human capacity development training both within and abroad with a view to expanding the professional horizon of the workforce and ultimately, engender quality and better service delivery to the customers.   He also encouraged the personnel to  personally develop themselves at every given opportunity they have. In his words, “We are indeed appreciative and look forward to your continued patronage and support in 2023. Be rest assured of our avowed commitment to providing top-notch professional risk advisory services at all given times you throw the opportunity our way. We look forward to making your 2023 a memorable, rewarding, and fruitful one”.   Similarly, the Executive Director, Marketing & Business Development Division, Ugochi Odemelam assured Mr. Soyinka that the Division is totally committed to delighting its customers in the most professional and courteous manner in making the Underwriter’s brand a preferred choice for patronage amongst other insurance companies in the country.  Ugochi pointed out that beyond marketing the products and services of the company in 2023 and thereafter, the Underwriting Firm is also committed to paying genuine claims after all due processes have been put in place by both the Insured and the Insurer.  According to her, “We must let our various policyholders, individuals or corporate, know that claims settlement is what insurance business is all about”. We are committed to that in every ramification, Odemelam affirmed.