Group Managing Director, Nepal Energies Limited, Barr. Ngozi Ekeoma and Group Executive Director, Dozzy Group Limited, Lady Ada Chukwudozie, have expressed delight over their emergence as winners of The Sun Entrepreneur of the Year award and Industrialist of the Year award 2022, saying the honour would make them work harder. The business icons said they were particularly happy that the recognition came from a credible platform which has, over the years, built an enviable reputation of truth and professionalism. Ekeoma, Chukwudozie and 24 others will be honoured at The Sun Awards ceremony on January 28, 2023 at the Expo Convention Centre, Eko Hotels & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. The duo spoke separately in Lagos when the Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief of The Sun Publishing Ltd, Mr. Onuoha Ukeh, led a delegation of management team to present letters nominating them for the awards. Expressing surprise at her nomination, Ekeoma said: “I know there are a lot of hard-working achievers out there. Being counted among them is a pleasant surprising. We count ourselves lucky to be identified for this recognition.” Pledging to continue doing her best in the business world, she said: “The only expectation people have from those being recognised for good performance is for the person involved to do more to justify the honour.” On her part, Lady Chukwudozie said her award would motivate her to do more. She said: “I know the award will spur me to do better, knowing that I’m now out there under the watchful eyes of everyone. “You recognised me for the little I’ve done; that means I should do more. I should go out there to achieve more, mentor other women and other people.” Chukwudozie, who is the Chairman, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), South East Nigeria, stressed: “I appreciate this award by The Sun. It’s God-given. It’s a great honour to us as a company. We appreciate it.” Earlier in his remarks, The Sun MD said Ekeoma and Chukwudozie’s selection for the awards was based on merit because of their outstanding records as entrepreneur and Industrialist. On Ekeoma, he said the Nepal boss worked herself into the big league of entrepreneurs in Nigeria. Ukeh noted: “You sit at the top of multi-billion naira enterprises that have adaed impetus to the country’s socio-economic development. The fact that you sit on boards of several other companies, including Quest Shipping Limited, Sorties Logistics, Emline Nigeria Limited, Genesis Electricity Limited, South Globe limited, and Nepal Upstream, among others, makes you a force in the business world.” He said that by a dint of hard work, vision and tact, Ekeoma has grown to become an “astute entrepreneur, wealth creator, and notable employer of labour,” adding: “Your business interests span across oil and gas, agriculture, manufacturing, power, money market, shipping and logistics. Speaking on Chukwudozie, Ukeh said: “It is for your ability to play at the top in the industrial sector, managing 14 companies in the Dozzy Group, that the Board of Editors of The Sun Publishing Limited chose you as winner of the Industrialist of the Year Award 2022.” He hailed Lady Chukwudozie for her leadership of MAN in South East, saying: “Your recent emergence as the chairman of MAN for Anambra, Enugu and Ebonyi states, with over 150 active member-companies under your supervision within the zone, is an attestation to your worth in the manufacturing sector of the economy. “At the Dozzy Group, your managerial prowess and entrepreneurial acumen have been brought to bear, making the company a colossus in the manufacturing sector, in Oil & Gas, plastic industries and PIKO juice, among others. Apart from Ekeoma and Lady Ada, others who will also receive awards are, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State and Mallam Mele Kyari, Group Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (Man of the Year); Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, Governor of Abia State; Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State and Governor Umaru Fintiri of Adamawa (Governor of the Year); Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State (Courage in Leadership); Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State (Political Icon) and Dr. Zainab Shinkafi-Bagudu (First Lady of the Year). Other award winners are, General Overseer, Omega Power Ministries, Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere; Chief James Chijioke Ume, Chairman, Unubiko Foundation (Humanitarian Service Icon); Mr. Festus Mbisiogu, Chairman, Shanghai Engineering Works Limited; Chief Benjamin Igwe (Entrepreneur of the Year); Dr. Stanley Uzochukwu, Chairman of Stanel Group and Dr. John-Kennedy Opara, Chairman, CSS Ingrated Farms Limited (Investor of the Year). Also to receive awards are, Chief Kelvin Jumbo Onumah, Chairman of Sublime Group Limited (Hospitality Personality); Mercy Johnson-Okojie (Nollywood Personality); Chief Gabriel Igbinedion, Esama of Benin Kingdom, Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife, ex-Anambra State governor; Alhaja Sinatu Ojikutu, ex-Lagos Deputy Governor, and Alhaji Sule Lamido, former Jigawa State governor (Lifetime Achievement). Others are, Prof. Mohammed Sani Haruna, Executive Vice Chairman, National Agency for Science, Engineering Infrastructure; Dr. George Moghalu, MD, National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA); Dr. Richard Okoye, Chief Medical Director, Save A Mission Hospital Group, Port Harcourt (Public Service) and Mr. Olukayode Pitan, MD, Bank of Industry (Banker of the Year).