The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive of the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI), Prof. Mohammad Sani Haruna, yesterday pleaded for  the release of 1% due to the agency from the Federation Account. He also said the agency will soon establish  Industrial Equipment and Machinery Development Institute (IEMDI) and a Skill Acquisition Centre in Borno. He requested for about 20 hectares of land (20Ha) for the take-off of the new institute and another 10 hectares (10 Ha) for the skill centre. Haruna, who made the plea during a courtesy call on Governor Babagana Zulum in Maiduguri, said the massive skill training of youths was to guarantee employability and bridge the existing gap in various occupations. He said: “Despite the approval of NEC, headed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, the approval of the National Assembly and Mr. President, NASENI is yet to start receiving 1% of the funds from the Federation Account. “I am therefore seeking your support and assistance not only for the commencement of remittance to NASENI dedicated account but also for the payment of all arrears due to the agency from the Federation account.” He added: “I wish to convey the Presidential approval for the location and establishment of Industrial Equipment and Machinery Development Institute (IEMDI). It is one of the 12 new institutes of NASENI approved since 2021 by Mr. President. “He has also approved the establishment of a skill acquisition and training centre in Borno State at a location of your choice. “There will be skill development training for 100 youths selected from all the local governments in the state on modern vulcanizing methods and application with start-up kit in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s nationwide training of teeming youth. “The massive skill training of youths is to guarantee employability and bridge the existing gap in various occupations created by the collapse of crafts, vocational schools and technical colleges. The training in Maiduguri is scheduled to start on 30th January 2023. Responding, Governor Zulum promised to mobilize his colleagues to ensure the release of the 1% allocation from the Federation Account for NASENI.