The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and the Corps Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Dauda Biu, will be special guests at the forthcoming Nigeria auto industry award. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Organised annually by the Nigeria Auto Journalists Association (NAJA), this year’s award is scheduled to hold at the Oriental Hote, Victoria Island, Lagos, on February 9, 2023.  The organisers said in press statement that other stakeholders that have also indicated interest to be part of the prestigious award ceremony are Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing Ltd {IVM}, Toyota Nigeria Limited (TNL), CFAO Motors, Dangote Peugeot, Kewalram Nigeria Limited and Lanre Shittu Motors.  In addition, Mikano Motors, RT Briscoe, Elizade Autoland, Jet System, Nord Motors, Autochek, GUO Transport, among others have equally confirmed their participation in the formost auto industry event in the country.  Already, finalists have been shortlisted for the auto awards, with GAC GS4, Geely Coolray and Suzuki S-Presso nominated for the ultimate car-of-the-year award category. NAJA Auto Awards is an annual event that celebrates auto brands across the entire industry value chain in Nigeria. According to the awards committee, dozens of distinguished automotive journalists from different mediums selected the finalists based on their evaluation of each eligible vehicle as part of their professional work. In the Truck-of-the-Year category, the contest will involve Sinotruk by Dangote, Shacman by Transit Support Services and JAC from Lanre Shittu Motors. Innoson, Mikano and GAC will slug it out in the Assembly Plant-of-the-Year category. In the luxury car segment, Porsche, Mercedes and BMW models are the front runners. Elizade Autoland (JAC), Stallion Hyundai and CFAO Motors will battle for the outstanding auto workshop honour. In the SUV category (compact), Kia Selto, Geely Coolray and GAC GS4 have been nominated. For Large SUV, Toyota Land Cruiser will lock horns with GAC GS8, BMW X7 and Range Rover (Autobiography). Toyota Hilux, Mitsubishi L200 and Ford Ranger will battle for the Best Pickup award. Lanre Shittu (JAC truck), TSS (Shacman) and Dangote Sinotruk will also battle again for the truck plant of the year award. Giving insight into the nominees, Chairman of the 2022 Award Committee, Rasheed Bisiriyu, said all vehicles nominated in the various categories represent exceptional value and designs. “We are using our respected, trusted platform to recognise and acknowledge best-performing brands in different segments and categories across the entire auto value chain.” According to him, the award event, which has now become a major industry show, celebrates and rewards automotive excellence. He also disclosed that the Managing Director of RT Briscoe, Mr. Seyi Onajide, and Deputy Managing Director of CFAO Motors, Mr. Kunle Jaiyesimi, would be honoured with the Auto Personality of the year in recognition of their immense contributions to the development of Nigeria’s auto industry. In his own comment, Chairman of NAJA, Mike Ochonma, said the auto journalist body has always believed in bringing together all the stakeholders in the automotive sector to build a stronger community and strengthen consumers’ confidence and trust in the industry and their brands.