JOE EFFIONG, UYO,  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Pastor Uno Eno has told professionals in Akwa Ibom State that his economic blueprint goal would largely push towards poverty reduction and agricultural revolution.  Eno who said this at the special townhall meeting organized by Connect Initiative for the guber candidate to interface with stakeholders across professional groups at the weekend, said he is committed to bridge existing gap between the poor and the rich.  ” I understand the language of the ordinary citizen. Poverty reduction is my foremost economic blueprint goal and i will do everything within my powers to take some steps to help bridge the gap between the poor and the rich”. He said  He listed other economic blueprint goals to include; job creation, price stability, sustainable economic growth, improved standard of living, environmental sustainability, highly educated youths, healthy and skilled populace, safety and security.  “The rate of unemployment is growing, we need to do so much to ensure that our youths have work to do. We want to ensure they have a skill sets that would help them do the jobs available, we need to improve our standard of living by giving people the basic necessities of life”. He said  While acknowledging the speedy transformation of Akwa Ibom State by successive Governors, the PDP hopeful says he is out to consolidate on such economic gains to expand frontiers of the state economy.  Setting out his plans for the health sector, Eno pledged to revitalize the Primary Health Care Centers, set up senior citizens Health scheme, revive and upgrade existing PHCs across the state, establish a medical city and incorporate the aspect of wellness and health spas, amongst others.  “We will reassess the free maternal, newborn and child health care services for the less privilege and vulnerable people in the state to make it more sustainable  “We will make the rural areas very attractive that every doctor would want to go there. But you must stay there when you get the money . We’ will give you an incentive that you would not be able to reject. We will build rural markets, hospital and make them attractive”. He assured  He listed his policy directions to include; ensuring the safety and security of lives and property, reduction of illiteracy, provision of high standard education system, digital inclusiveness in all education and training programmes, promotion of research and development activities, quality and affordable healthcare.  He used the occasion to appeal to other contestants in the race to eschew mudslinging and other forms of character assassination in their electioneering, but to campaign in a way that would continue to promote existing peaceful coexistence in the state. Interracting with the professionals and members of socio-cultural organizations, Eno who assured that he had noted their concerns, promised to look into issues raised especially in areas he may not have had sufficient information.   Issues raised cut across legal, engineering, architectural, union matters, commerce and industry, ICT, non indigenes, media, etc.  The Chairman on the occasion, Prof Akpan Ekpo had aerlier commended Connect Initiative for putting up the special Townhall meeting and applauded the PDP gubernatorial candidate for accepting to interact with professionals across sectors in the state.  Ekpo who was represented by Prof Trenchard Ibia,  advised participants to organize themselves into sectors and sub-sectors and interact in a way that would benefit or add value to their professional groups.. Speaking on behalf of Connect Initiative, organizers of the special interaction with profession bodies, Dr Frank Ekpeyong said The aim of the town hall meeting was to provide a platform where Pastor Eno can directly engage with critical stakeholders on the concerns and challenges facing the different sectors of the society and provide the opportunity for the stakeholders to converse, inquire and secure commitments from the candidate as it regards his plans for Akwa Ibom State.