From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja The Federal Government, through the Nigeria Mining Cadastre Office, responsible for the management and administration of mineral titles in the country, has generated N14.59 billion in five years (2018 to 2022). Director General of the agency, Obadiah Nkom, made the disclosure to State House Correspondents at the 63rd session of the State House Ministerial briefing organised by the Presidential Communications Team at the Aso Rock Villa, Abuja. The agency from 2018 to 2020, generated N1.55 billion, N2.38 billion and N2.57 billion respectively.  However, between 2021 and 2022, the agency’s revenue fell from N4.3 billion to N3.79 billion respectively.  The director general attributed the drop in revenue to changes in its internal operating system which temporarily affected revenue inflow.  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Nkom, who was recently reappointed for another period of four years, said the agency has revoked 3,400 titles, already. He added that the agency’s bid to generate appropriate revenue for the government, plans are on to revoke more not utilised titles in 2023. According to him, the application of the principle of ‘use it or lose it’ to mining title/rights administration and failure to pay up mandatory annual service fees are responsible for revocation.  He explained that there are restrictions and conditions for the issuance of coal mining licenses in Nigeria.  Nkom said: “We have to be very strategic, and also take into account current global issues. The Mining Cadastre Office does not just issue licenses, we look at the future, issues of sustainability, maximising value, strategically ensuring Nigeria is properly managing its mineral wealth to achieve maximum economic value and diversification.” On the principles of allocation of mining licenses in Nigeria, the director general said the agency gives priority to ‘first come first served’ and ‘Use it or lose it’. “How does the system run? Is on use it or lose it basis. We’ve had instances where people receive and get licenses and keep these licenses, and they don’t use them. The law is very, very clear on that. What does that mean? We give you the license. If you don’t adhere to the provisions of the Act, you lose it. How do you lose it, you lose it by way of revocation. And it’s not arbitrary. We give you a notice of default, for you to be able to remedy the defect, we give you 30 days in line with the law. You can decide to remedy the effect on the 29th day. We are fine with that. But once it is 30 days, and you don’t remedy the defects, then we revoke the title because we know that all these are subjects to litigations,” Nkom said.