From Gyang Bere, Jos The Plateau State Command have arrested a pastor, Albarka Bitrus Sukuya, of Jenta Apata in Jos North Local Government Area, who has staged being kidnapped in order to defraud church members of ransom money. A press statement signed by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Alfred Alabo, said that the accused pastor has been faking being kidnapped and has received ransoms for his release. “The Plateau State Police Command has again uncovered the nefarious act of one pastor Albarka Bitrus Sukuya, ‘m’, of Jenta Apata, Jos who on several occasions staged his kidnap with his cohorts and receive ransom from sympathizing members of his congregation. “Sequel to his spurious kidnaps of 14/11/2022 and 30/11/2022 where the sum of Four Hundred Thousand Naira (N400,000) and Two Hundred Thousand Naira (N200,000) were respectively paid by his sympathizers as ransom for his release, the incidents triggered suspicion. “Through credible intelligence, the clergyman was invited by the DPO Nassarawa Gwong Police Station, CSP Musa Hassan and investigation commenced immediately. In the course of the investigation, it was established that the suspect has been conspiring with his gang to stage his kidnap and fraudulently collect ransom. “On interrogation, the suspect confessed to having committed the crime and mentioned the following persons as his accomplices, Baruk Mailale, Nathaniel Bitrus both males of Yelwan Zangam village of Jos-North and 3 Aye (surname yet to be known) ‘male of Jalingo, Taraba State.” The statement stated that the suspect further revealed that he set ablaze two motor vehicles ( a Mercedes Benz and a Toyota) and a bicycle parked at ECWA Bishara 3 Jenta Apata premises belonging to his colleagues who he alleged one of them hates him, referring to his senior pastor. He noted that Police operatives of Nassarawa Gwong Division, Jos-North LGA arrested two (2) of the suspects, Baruk Mailale and Nathaniel Bitrus while efforts have been intensified to arrest Aye, the third suspect. “The Command wants members of the public to be watchful and report any suspicious happenings around them or within their area on time, as this will greatly help in arresting criminals thereby, reducing crime and criminality in state.”