From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja  Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has made a special request to the management of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPCL) to use its land and floating mega stations nationwide to service election duty vehicles and boats on election days. INEC Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, made the request in his remarks while hosting NNPCL management in Abuja on Tuesday.  “Earlier in the morning, we had a meeting with the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW). We are working with them as well as the Marine Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN) to mobilise the vehicles and boats needed for the massive land and riverine movement of men and materials for the election. We are determined to overcome the perennial challenge of late commencement of polls on grounds of logistics.  “However, this objective cannot be fully accomplished without the guaranteed supply of petroleum products to facilitate the movement of vehicles and boats. Hence, in our effort to mobilise every national institution to give Nigerians a pleasant experience on Election Day, the commission believes that the NNPC, as our national oil company, is one of the critical institutions that can facilitate the attainment of our objective. “We are aware of the efforts of the NNPC to ease the current situation in earnest. At the same time, we would like to appeal to you to consider the following proposals. “The use of the NNPC land and floating mega stations nationwide to service our election duty vehicles and boats. We will bear the cost of the products. By doing so, there will be guaranteed supply for elections;  “A special arrangement with other marketers in locations where the NNPC may not have dedicated stations; and consider other options to support our seamless operations on Election Day,” Yakubu appealed.  “Let me first of all express my profound gratitude to the NNPC Limited for the audience. Only last week, we proposed this meeting and without hesitation the GCEO obliged us. This is an affirmation of the openness of the national oil company and its commitment to the national interest. “As you are aware, Nigerians will go to the polls in a little over three weeks in what will be our 7th consecutive general election since the restoration of democracy in 1999. The election will hold in two phases. “Nigerian election is huge and complex. Election is the biggest logistical operation that Nigeria undertakes every four years. 93,469,008 registered voters are expected to elect a President, 28 State Governors and 1,462 legislators (109 Senators, 360 members of House of Representatives and 993 members of State Houses of Assembly). “The commission is mobilising about 100,000 vehicles and 4,000 boats for the deployment of personnel and materials to 176,846 polling units spread across 8,809 Registration Areas (or electoral Wards) in 774 Local Government Areas nationwide.