By Daniel Kanu Dr Ossai Edmund Ndudi,  activist, international public health consultant, and public commentator in this encounter with Sunday Sun in  Lagos, speaks on the upcoming general  elections, security challenges, and the way forward for Nigeria, among other sensitive issues. Excerpt: What is your assessment of the political campaigns so far, particularly of the presidential candidates? You know this has been the longest electioneering in the history of Nigeria. Perhaps, the political parties and their candidates are taking their time. However, we expect that the campaign will obviously take a different turn this January. The major issue now is that we should engage the presidential candidates more. I observed that the African Independent Television (AIT) has commenced interviews with all the 18 presidential candidates starting with the candidate for Accord Party. That is a welcome development.   Arise TV is also engaging candidates superbly and I am aware Channels TV is also on it. I am sure more of such engagements will take effect from next year. I think there are several loose areas. For example, we should know the position of the candidates on the myriad of issues in the country.  For example, the several crises in the public universities and the educational sector as a whole, the power sector, the health sector, and the current security situation. The issue of oil theft, the high rate of unemployment, and the worsening poverty situation. It is important that we know the mind of the presidential candidates on all these issues. I am sure most people may be willing to cast their votes for specific presidential candidates based on their positions on several of these issues. There are several issues at stake in this election so the best approach is for the people to engage the presidential candidates more. How do you see the Peter Obi campaign? Critics say it’s a social media celebration by Obi-dients with no structure? A friend reminded me that it is someone who is with the ball that experiences tackles. That may explain why there is so much attention on the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Mr Peter Obi. Obi is now a new phenomenon in Nigerian politics. The concept surrounding the Obi phenomenon is capable of engulfing the whole of Africa. In Peter Obi, we have two common names leading to the crystallization of national rebirth. Like Peter Obi will always say, ‘a new Nigeria is possible.’ You see even the greatest pundits neither contemplated nor imagined the emergence of the Obi factor in the political equation of Nigeria, so it is a surprise to almost everyone.  The point is that Mr Obi is now the biggest threat to the old order of Nigerian politics. Under such circumstances, criticisms ought to emerge. The most important aspect of the Obi phenomenon is that the rival political parties imitate some of their strategies. The Obi campaign has been moving on well. Recall that he spent his Christmas with those in IDP camps in Benue State something that thrilled the governor of that state so much. The Labour Party has emphasized that their own structures are the people of Nigeria themselves. The culture of structure is all about having powerful people in the system who are capable of influencing votes. Most of us are happy with the new electoral law. We are hopeful that the use of BVAS in the election next year will moderate the extent to which the election could be rigged. In any case, what has been the good in the so-called structures being bandied about by some of the political parties? The same structure that have produced failed election promises, structures that have made millions of our citizens to live in abject poverty, structures that ensured that our universities were out of session for as long as eight months, structures that have emboldened corruption, structures that have made millions of Nigerians to lose hope and faith in their beloved fatherland. The Obi-dients are championing a new order where citizens are empowered to take back their country. So, to a large extent, this concept is opposed to the old order. What remains is whether the Obi-dients will fire fully to the end of this political journey. It will be important to find out whether they would eventually be moved by the numerous cash that may flood the system prior to the elections. Whether all of a sudden, they could develop apathy towards transforming their support to Peter Obi to votes on the day of reckoning. In any case, Peter Obi deserves some commendations for his forceful and unique intrusion into the Nigerian political space. Perhaps without his emergence as a presidential candidate in the manner he did, one could have easily predicted the winner of the 2023 presidential election about five months ago. Peter Obi may have prepared himself for the Obi movement of today, but I am sure that what is emerging at present is well beyond him. I am not sure of any other politician in Nigeria that has gathered this measure of support from all corners of the country simultaneously. Obi is a reward for hard work, the urgent need for excellence in public service and to have the welfare of the people as a priority by leaders. The good thing is that no one has linked Obi with any form of corruption or corrupt practices. This is an attribute solely enjoyed by President Muhammadu Buhari at present. No other politician comes so close to these two great Nigerians in terms of being corruption-free. This is of much credit and could account for how well he has galvanized action toward a national re-birth within so short a time. Take it or leave it, the Obi phenomenon has come to stay in the politics of Nigeria. How would you rate the outing of the APC presidential candidate at the Chatham house chat? There have been several comments on the visit of the APC presidential candidate to Chatham House in London. Most times, I prefer to leave politicians to play the politics and see things from a different angle. You see the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) issued an apology for a matter that does not concern them as a people. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is the presidential candidate of a registered political party, the All Progressive Congress(APC). The name APC is very different from PDP so the apology was not necessary. It was just a political maneuver. In seeing this matter from a different angle, could it be that the presidential candidate wanted to try something new by showcasing a well-assembled team ready to transform Nigeria. If this is the case, it means the critics of the method he used at that Chatham encounter are already in error. Bola Ahmed Tinubu is a seasoned politician who, in fact, well tested.  I am sure that anyone who underrates him is doing so at a great cost. If you follow my line of thought it means that even if that strategy did not work the way they thought, the Presidential Campaign Council will have to re-strategize. The opportunities are there for the campaign council as the campaigns are energized this January. Coming to strategies, let us bear in mind that it is the APC presidential candidate that has given greater attention to his vice presidential candidate than the other presidential candidates. In effect, this may also be another political strategy that he will work harmoniously with his vice if elected and this may be a plot towards gaining the necessary support from voters in the northern part of the country. How worried are you about insecurity in the Southeast and the coming general elections? Indeed, I am very worried about the security situation in the Southeast zone of the country as it concerns the 2023 elections. It is important we give the matter the desired attention. INEC is already raising a red flag. Destruction of INEC facilities is highest in the Southeast region. Again, there is the report of killings in Eha-Amufu, which may not have received the necessary attention. Now the Southeast is of relevance in the 2023 elections hence peace in the region is very essential. Before now the Southeast supports the Peoples Democratic Party. However, in this election, the region has two presidential candidates, one for APGA and the other for Labour Party. An atmosphere of peace is important for the elections in 2023. We expect the government at all levels to do its best in restoring peace to all corners of Nigeria and also ensure that people come out freely to cast their votes in the general election. What is your assessment of the Buhari-led government as they wind up? It was IBB that said that ‘we are not only in government, but also in power.’ Truth be said, the Buhari government is still in power. In recent times, President Buhari has been speaking so much about the upcoming general elections. If he maintains his stand and ensures that the election is free and fair that will eventually be the best parting gift to Nigeria. In fact, a legacy of sorts. It is important we continue to support the Buhari administration especially as the election draws closer. Bear in mind that the body language of the president is essential to the impartiality of INEC and its officials. Again, the fight against insurgency and terrorism has assumed a new dimension in recent times. Perhaps, if we have maintained this momentum earlier, the situation would not have reached the stage that it is at present. In any case, we need to commend the government for their efforts so far. Remember, security is very important for a free and fair election. In recent times, the president has been talking more to the people unlike before. He has even said he will not leave Nigeria worse than he met it. I wish him the very best in that assignment. I believe that this act of talking to the citizens is a good turn around and the president should be commended. The important point is that the president will have a good place in history if he ensures that the 2023 general election is free and fair. The president will need all the necessary support in this direction. Indeed, history beckons to President Buhari. I expect him to grab this golden opportunity with both hands. The economy is bad, no doubt, but that is among the challenges the next government will grapple with. It now behooves Nigerians to go for a president with the right economic vision, competence, and capacity.               What is the way forward for Nigeria? The way forward for Nigeria is for us to have a free and fair election this year and experience another peaceful handover from one civilian administration to another. This is very important. President Buhari has been consistent about his plans and intentions for a good election next year. You see what happens in Nigeria trickles down to other African countries and that is why we have to always get it right. Entrenching democracy in Nigeria is of utmost importance. Once that is done it behooves the new administration to do its best to unify the nation. This may be a long-term programme so the new government has to demonstrate this through its various decisions and actions. The new government should learn from the initial mistakes of the Buhari administration based on comments related to the votes that brought the administration to power. The main assignment of the new government will be to renew the hope of citizens in their country. This will have a lot of positive ripple effects that will be of good to the country. In short, the people are in wait for the emergence of a new Nigeria. There is the problem of insecurity and economic uncertainties that have generated so much fear and despair among the citizens. The issues of agitations here and there may be taken care of by the peace efforts if well handled. The new government will have its hands full and will require patience and cooperation from all citizens. I will expect the new administration to assemble a cabinet of meaningful and time-tested Nigerians irrespective of political affiliations. This is not the time for a government to stay for months without the inauguration of the Federal Executive Council. The new government should demonstrate its readiness to work immediately after the swearing-in ceremony.