The latest abysmal global ranking of Nigerian passport is regrettable and unacceptable. The poor rating of the green passport epitomises our other global low ratings in virtually all indices of human development. Apart from worsening economy and rising national debt, Nigeria is still the poverty capital of the world, with extreme high inflation rate, insecurity and rising unemployment. In the current Henley Passport Index report, Nigerian passport was ranked 88th out of 109 national passports in the world for 2023. This places Nigerian green passport among the worst or least valuable passports to hold in the current year. This also means that holders of Nigerian passport have visa-free access to only 46 countries in the world. The Henley Passport Index (HPI) is a London-based global citizenship and residence advisory firm. The Index is based on exclusive data from the International Air Transport Association (IATA). The Japanese passport was ranked the most powerful with visa-free access to 193 countries, followed by Singapore and South Korea at second position, Germany and Spain came 4th, United Kingdom and United States were placed 6th and 7th, respectively. India was ranked 85th. Other countries among the 20 worst passports included Eritrea, South Sudan, Chad, Niger, Zimbabwe, Surinam, Senegal, Sierra Leone and Antiqua.  Before the 2023 report, Nigeria had fallen 38 places in global ranking in the last 17 years, between 2006 and 2022.  The index ranks passports according to the number of countries the holders can access visa-free   or with a visa-on-arrival programme. The Henley Passport Index, which covers 227 destinations across the world, is a useful tool for travellers. By combining the HPI data and the World Bank Gross Domestic Product (GDP) data, the new research ranks all 199 national passports in the world in terms of their Henley Passport Power (HPP) score. This indicates the percentage of global GDP each passport provides without a prior visa.  It is unfortunate that the Nigerian passport has been ranked abysmally low within the period under review. It should serve as a wake-up call on the government to get things right in the country since the perception of any country’s passport is a reflection of its national image. Although Nigerian passport gained 11 more destinations in 2005, it fell from 62nd position in 2006 to 100th in 2022. This means that holders of Nigerian passport cannot access over 181 travel destinations without visa application. As of September 2022, travellers with Nigerian passport can only traverse 25 countries visa-free. While the Nigerian passport has moved three places in global ranking, it still lags behind that of Ghana, Togo, and 43 other African countries.  The poor ranking of Nigerian passport is an indication that the country is not faring well in so many sectors. That is why there is brain drain in the health and education sectors and Nigerian youths are migrating to other countries in Europe and America. This scenario can possibly explain why some foreign embassies are enforcing strict visa regulations on Nigerians. It is likely that the stringent visa regulations are informed by the erroneous belief that many Nigerians are desirous to leave the country. According to information from Nigeria Immigration Service, the ranking of the Nigerian passport is based on passport admissibility, and is mainly a function of mutual understanding and reciprocity among countries, which does not necessarily represent the actual strength of a passport. We believe that with good leadership, the negative perception of Nigerian passport can be reversed. The Japanese passport gives visa-free access to its holders to 193 destinations, representing 85 per cent of the world. These countries account for 98 per cent of the global economy, with Japan’s GDP contributing five per cent. In contrast, Nigeria’s passport holders with only 46 destinations across the world represent only 20 per cent of the world and a paltry 1.5 per cent of global GDP. At the bottom of the rung is the Afghan national passport which provides only 12 per cent visa-free access to the world, and less than one per cent of global economic output. Let all tiers of government work together and improve the economy and reduce the unbridled migration of Nigerian youths to United Kingdom, United States and Canada. The government should enhance the quality of Nigerian passports in line with international standards. Besides, good governance is one of the best ways to improve the global rating of Nigerian passport.  We need transparent and accountable governance system and the strengthening of all democratic institutions. That is why the next administration will focus more on revamping the economy, reducing national debt, inflation, poverty and unemployment. This will help curb the desire of Nigerians, especially the youths, to leave the country for greener pastures abroad.