From Olanrewaju Lawal, Birnin Kebbi Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu says a vote for APC presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, his running mate, Senator Kashim Shettima and all the party’s candidates is a vote for sustainable development. Bagudu,who is also the Chairman of the APC Governors’ Forum spoke on Friday in Kalgo town, headquarters of Kalgo Local Government in continuation of the APC campaigns for the 2023 general elections. He said that the Federal Government led by President Muhammadu Buhari had in the last seven and half years done a lot for Nigerians, people of Kebbi State and Kalgo in particular. He cited several projects executed by the Federal Government to include the siting of the Federal University, Birnin Kebbi and the Anchor Borrowers Programme, among others. Bagudu said that one of the glaring fall outs of the ABP was the establishment of no fewer than two major rice mills in the area. The Kebbi State Governor also gave an example of the establishment of the modern Kebbi Medical Centre in the area, among others. “These are among the myriad of developmental strides brought to the state and Kalgo LG. “These giant strides will be sustained and surpassed if Tinubu, Shettima, Kauran Gwandu and all other APC candidates are elected. “In this development, the people of Kalgo and Kebbi State should massively cast their votes for APC,” Bagudu urged. Also speaking, the APC gubernatorial candidate, Dr Nasiru Idris, Kauran Gwandu said Kalgo is very historic and key to the APC. The Kauran Gwandu described Kalgo as his second home having worked there for eighteen years and retired there. The gubernatorial candidate also said that the administrations of the DG APC campaign council and former Governor, Alhaji Sa’idu Nasamu Dakingari and his successor, Bagudu had done a lot for the area. He also recalled that no fewer than 2,000 women each got N120,000 under the Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT). “If elected, my Administration will work for the people of the state like my two predecessors, Dakingari and Bagudu,”the Kauran Gwandu vowed. APC Chairman, Kalgo Local Government, Alhaji Sani Namagari told the gathering that it has became imperative for people of Kalgo to vote for APC in view of numerous projects carried out by Governor Bagudu in the Local Government He also said Dr. Nasir Idris, Kauran Gwandu as the gubernatorial candidate of APC would emerge victorious by the grace of God at the 2023 polls. The Zonal Vice Chairman , Kebbi Central, Alhaji Abubakar Bello Matawalle equally assured that APC led administration under Bagudu performed some developmental projects such as the Kalgo township roads, the construction of Kebbi Medical Center by Alhaji Saidu Nasamu Dakingari, former Governor of Kebbi State and employment of medical staff by Governor Bagudu to manage the hospital . Alhaji Sahabi Namagarza, Hon Abba Sani Kalgo, Commissioner of Budget and Economic Development and Hon. Rilwanu Sahabi Kalgo, candidate for the State House Assembly, Kalgo constituency and Professor Mukhtar Bunza, APC House of representatives candidate for Birnin Kebbi, Kalgo and Bunza all thanked Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu for the myriads of developmental projects in the area. Professor Mukhtar Bunza assured the APC gubernatorial candidate Dr. Nasir Idris, Kauran Gwandu of full support of the people of the area. ‘ You don’t need to campaign here, consider it as home coming ,from Asiwaju, Kashim Shetima to all our candidates, he averred. On his part, the Senator Abubakar Umar Tafida, the gubernatorial candidate running mate thanked people of Kalgo for their warm reception, he urged them to collect their PVCs and vote for APC. The State APC Chairman Abubakar Muhammad Kana Zuru was delightful with the mammoth crowd . He called on them to vote for Dr. Nasir Idris Kauran Gwandu and all APC candidates . The Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, APC gubernatorial candidate, Dr Nasir Idris, Kauran Gwandu DG campaign, Alhaji Saidu Nasamu Dakingari led the campaign team to Diggi town from Kalgo where they paid courtesy visit to the District Head of Diggi, Dangaladiman Diggi, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku Muhammad to seek for royal blessings. In Diggi , over 300 PDP supporters decamped to APC amids cheers. The APC campaign train was also in Kuka Nayelwa District where they paid courtesy visit to the District Head of Kuka Nayelwa, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku Diggi .