Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, wife of Edo State Governor, Mrs. Betsy Obaseki and former Director General (DG) of the defunct National Sports Commission (NSC), Dr. Patrick Ekeji, are among 14 sports personalities and corporate organisations to receive this year’s Sportsville Special Recognition Award. The ceremony comes up on Saturday, February 4, 2023 at the Prestigious Lagos Country Club, Ikeja GRA, Lagos. The Chief Executive Officer of Sportsville, Frank Ilaboya, who made this known yesterday shortly after receiving the report from the Award Committee said the ceremony would continue to headline the best in Nigeria. New Telegraph Group Sports Editor, Adekunle Salami, heads the Committee, made up of senior Sports Editors. Other winners of the individual awards include the sports-loving General Overseer of Mountain of Fire and Miracle Ministries (MFM), Dr. D.K Olukoya, Basketball guru, Col Sam Ahmedu (retd), Proprietor of Naija Ratels, Barrister Paul Edeh and President of HS Group, Mr. Taiye Ige. Others are chairman of high flying Remo Stars Football Club, Kunle Soname, Initiator of Lagos WomenRun, Mrs. Tayo Popoola, foremost golf sponsor, Otunba Olusola Adekanola and Nigeria’s new sensation in sports commentary, Emmanuel Etim. Wrestling coach to the last Commonwealth Games in Tokyo, Purity Aku and top indigenous kits manufacturer, Tunji Brown, popularly known as Owu Sports, also made the list. Late Brown Ebewele (Jujuman), who passed on last year will receive posthumous Award. In the corporate worId, the duo of Zenith Bank and Supersports would be honoured for their role in sports development and sponsorship in Nigeria. “We’re happy to announce the above personalities as our winners for this year,” Mr. Ilaboya added. “I want to thank the Award Committee for a job well done. “From our end, plans are in top gear to have another successful outing. “We also want to thank the Hon Sports Minster, Mr Sunday Dare and the sports loving Deputy Governor of Edo State, Rt Hon Philip Shaibu, for accepting to Chair the event and as Special Guest of Honour respectively.”