By Henry Uche In its usual way of impacting Lives within and outside his immediate community, the Sir Ebuka Okafor Foundation has again extended a hand of love to over 3000 widows by giving food stuffs like rice, beans garri, clothes and other goodies during the yuletide as it marks its 10th anniversary. The seasonal gestures also saw children gifted with noodles as well as free medical outreach with over 60 medical experts who handled several health cases. The annual event was held at the residence of Sir Ebuka Okafor at Ebenise Community in Idemili South of Anambra state. The events was heralded with special Thanksgiving church service held at all Saints Anglican church in Ifite Nnobi. In his sermon, the priest in charge, brother Gideon Nwachukwu, who spoke on the theme, ‘’Divine Settlement” urged the people to trust in the Lord who alone can fix every problem of mankind. “God would not disappoint us. It is only God who can give us the divine settlement. God has good plans for those who diligently seek Him and He is capable of seeing us through in all the challenges we are passing through. If only we will put our trust in Him,” he admonished. In his compound, the wife of the State governor, Mrs. Nonye Soludo who was represented by the commissioner of Children and Women Affairs, Hon. Ify Obinabo commended Sir. Ebuka saying, “This is in line with the state governor’s vision of empowering youth and women. Mr. Ebuka has partnered with the state government in the past in this regard and we shall support him the more,” she maintained. Similarly, the Chief Coordinating Officer for Ebuka Okafor Christmas outreach, Mrs. Blessing Nweke, restated that the Foundation was established to impact Lives adding that the Foundation has been touching lives in so many ways, which include meeting the spiritual needs of the widows, floating off scholarship scheme for indigents undergraduates in various institutions, sponsoring businesses and skill acquisition programs for many young people among others. He restated the determination of the Foundation to continue to take care of the widows in Nnobi and beyond. “We shall continue in this gesture for posterity sake,” she maintained. A special guest, Mr. Ikenna Iyiegbu urged beneficiaries to pray for Mr. Ebuka for a sustainable humanitarian services he has been offering. “We need to back him up in prayers” he implored. Reacting to encomiums, the founder of the Foundation, Sir Ebuka Okafor said God’s willing his Foundation would continue to do more having done it in a past 10 years. “We have done this for the past 10 years, as God blesses us, we shall continue to do more,” he assured. Beneficiaries (widows and children drawn within and outside the State who showed appreciation prayed for the philanthropist as they danced in admiration.