From Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) has announced its decision to endorse its presidential candidate and other contestants soon irrespective of their political parties they belong to soon. The Igbo pressure group vowed to encourage anybody from the South East willing to participate in the election to do so and assured it would not boycott the polls. MASSOB, which rose from its national executive council meeting, presided by its leader, Uchenna Madu, at its national secretariat in Awgu, Enugu State, yesterday, also resolved in a statement by its Director of Information, Samuel Edeson, that political space must be filled in the zone despite its struggle for a Biafra nation. Other resolutions reached at the meeting are: “that after more insightful and intensive deliberations on the current affairs of Nigeria state and future plight of the people of Biafra, MASSOB reaffirmed our primary and vowed goal of actualising Biafra through the principle of non-violence and international diplomacy in collaboration and brotherhood with other progressive pro-Biafra groups.                                            “MASSOB, having realised that Biafrans cannot forcefully impose our desirable interest on the people of Nigeria. And also having understand the principle of non-violence, MASSOB unanimously agreed and resolved Nigeria state will independently and internally observed and conduct their political exercises, including general election in Igbo land.                         “MASSOB in the wisdom of internationally recognised freedom of political participation and exercises, we declared this year general election will not be stopped or boycotted in Biafra land.  “The  people of South East region are free to participate in the electoral processes of Nigeria because our political space must be filled. MASSOB have allowed Independent National Electoral Commission to conduct elections in Biafra land. “That having also realised the importance of political and economical powers and its usefulness for the self-determination of Biafra actualisation and restoration, MASSOB declares that Ndigbo will massively participate in the 2023 presidential and legislatures elections to elect credible, selfless and progressive persons to represent South East political interest.