By Vera Wisdom-Bassey Ndito Akwa Ibom Worldwide Association (NAIWA), Lagos, recently held its annual get-together/empowerment programme at the National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos. Sons and daughters of the community gathered to celebrate the event for the second year. Activities at the events included cultural display by Ini-iso cultural dance troop and rib racking comedies.  The chief executive officer of NAIWA, Mr. Ime Ekpenyong, popularly known as MC Prime, did not hold back his joy. He excitedly stated that,l he started the organisation with just two members in Akwa Ibom State less than two years ago, but today, the association has chapters in about five states in Nigeria in which Lagos is one of them. While thanking the planning committee for a well packaged event, he disclosed the essence of the celebration.  According to him, “we are here to celebrate and empower our people.” The Lagos chapter has empowered some members through some skill acquisition programmes, help provide job for those who were unemployed, rendered financial assistance to some under privileged members and footing their hospital bills, among others. Nkoyo Thomas, a chief superintendent of police, Zone 2, Onikan, Lagos called on their people to stop bringing people into Lagos and housing them in hotels and thereby using them as prostitutes. He said instead, they should help them in other meaningful trades, and if in any situation they could not help such a person, they should be returned back home. “it is more better than engaging them into prostitution,. Akwa Ibom is not the worst state in Nigeria. There are other states which are worst than Akwa Ibom,” she said. Also, coordinator, NAIWA Lagos, Mr. Kingsley Peter, called on the people of Akwa Ibom to maintain peace in the community.  He urged them to see themselves as one, as brothers and sisters, and should relate one with another in love.  “Being in the association will help push the people forward, they will be better than they were before,” he said. “Don’t sell your vote, for if you do, you are selling your right and selling your vote to the wrong person and your generation as well, because it is the vote that makes the nation Nigeria,” he added. The media and publicity secretary/vice chairman, planning committee, Comrade Joseph Osom, stated that within the association are some under privileged members, especially in Lagos Chapter, who are still engaging in menial and house boy/girls jobs. He said it is the reason the leadership of the organization proposed to build a skill acquisition centre where members can train and learn the necessary skills that will add value to their lives. He therefore, appealed to the Akwa Ibom State government and well to do Nigerians for financial support to make that dream come to a reality. Mrs. Vivian Oyeyemi, the chairperson/assistance secretary, said that as a community they are to assist those who could not afford the payment of the skill acquisition, but they will empower them with such skill by paying for them and making sure they are well trained. The woman therefore used the opportunity to call on the government of Akwa Ibom to come to their aid in terms of financial support. Mrs. Ndifreke Martins called on the indigenes of the state to vote rightly during the forth-coming election, She said they should not be used or pushed into selling of their votes to a candidate that is not their choice. She said: “I am so happy being in your midst. I can’t remember when last I was in such a gathering of my people,” she said.