From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja  Chief of Defense Staff, General Lucky Irabor, has assured that the military was prepared to support the police and other internal security agencies for the conduct of peaceful and credible elections. He spoke at this year’s Armed Forces Remembrance Day celebration, yesterday, at the National Arcade in Abuja, where President Muhammadu Buhari led other senior government officials at the wreath laying ceremony. Responding to a question about the military’s readiness for the elections, Irabor said though the police would remain the frontline security outfit, the armed forces would support from the rear. “I am sure you know that the police are on the lead. I have been discussing with the IG (Inspector-General of Police) and of course, we’ve also made contingencies should we be required to give support to the police as the election is conducted? I think Nigerians should be rest assured that the armed forces remain solidly behind the police to be able to give them all the support as required.” The CDS also assured that a military coup, as recently witnessed in certain African states, poses no threat to Nigeria’s democracy. “Democracy has come to stay; government of the people, by the people and for the people in Nigeria has come to stay. That is an assurance.” Irabor also described the Armed Forces Remembrance Day ceremony as an occasion of gratitude that some Nigerians deem their country worth dying for. He said the annual event emboldens members of the Armed Forces to play their part in defending their country. Meanwhile, widows of the fallen soldiers have called for speedy processing of the life insurance benefits and other entitlements due their families. Cynthia Ubah, widow of Victor Ubah, a Nigerian Air Force Squadron Leader, killed in an ambush during a joint operation in Kebbi State, July 7 2021, said  though she received the benefits due her within one month of her husband’s demise, other military families have not been so fortunate. “It is taking longer to compensate the families;  before it used to take a shorter while.  Now? Families have to wait, keep waiting and keep calling. Mine didn’t take time thankfully.  But I have seen others in this situation and they’ve been complaining that it has taken them a very long time. Mine was between a month or two. But for some, it’s stretching from nine months to a year now, which is really not telling good on them.”