From Tony Osauzo, Benin, Idu Jude, Abuja  and Paul Osuyi, Asaba  Security agents, comprising the police, vigilance groups and local hunters have commenced the combing the bushes around the Tom Ikimi Train Station in Igueben, Edo State in an effort to rescue 31 passengers and staff of the Nigeria Railway Corporation  (NRC) kidnapped Saturday evening during an attack on the train station by suspected terrorists.  This is as the Federal Government has vowed to ensure that all the victims are rescued and the culprits apprehended. Dialy Sun learnt that 32 persons were initially kidnapped, but one of the victims (a woman) was able to escape. It was also learnt that one of the attackers has been arrested and is assisting security agents in tracking and freeing those whisked away into captivity; among them, the train station manger, Godwin Okpe; Head of Security, simply identified as Ikhayere; Igueben community resident, Victor Osarobho and station ticket clerk, identified as Akhere.  Edo State Commissioner for Communication and Orientation, Chris Osa Nehikhare, who addressed journalists on the incident, yesterday, described the attack as unfortunate and narrated how the attack occured. He said: “Yesterday is no doubt one of the most trying day so far in the new year for us as a government. A few armed men kidnapped 32 people at the Igueben train station. The deputy governor, Philip Shaibu, has visited the train station for on the spot assessment of the situation. The abductors, some of whom came by vehicles and the others by the bush paths, escaped into the bush with the victims. “Immediately the news filtered in, the police in the area, local vigilante and hunters swung into action and bush combing began to rescue the victims. Information at our disposal is to the effect that of the 32 people kidnapped, one escaped and we have 31 others with the kidnappers. The good news for us as a government is that one of the kidnappers has been arrested and he is helping the police to unravel the whole thing… “As a government, we hope too that this will be the last time we will have daring people invading our train stations, and particularly, any part of Edo State, as we will make such daring elements uncomfortable and secure our state. We want to assure the security agencies and the local hunters and vigilante that the Edo State Government will continue to support them as efforts are being made to rescue the remaining 31 victims.” Traditional rulers of Igueben, Ehizojie Eluojierior I, Onogie of Igueben and Okaigun of Esanland, described the incident as appalling, adding that the entire community was thrown into “unwanted silence” as the people were yet to come to terms with the attack. Eluojierior said in the past, such incidents had taken place without being reported in the media. “The mood in the town is quiet as well as activated because the police, vigilantes, and the hunters are working together on the issue. They combed the bush till midnight on Saturday and have resumed this morning (Sunday). I hear there hasd been similar attempts in Delta State by bandits from other parts of the country, which was repelled. The attack took everyone by surprise,”  he said. In a separate account, however, a resident in the area, Odia Benson, claimed the abductors released two kids who were with them, alongside the woman reported to have escaped.  “The train normally arrives by 5 pm so as at about 20 minutes to 5pm, bandits just came through the bush part and invaded the place, they took away the station manager, took away the booking clerk and about 29 other passengers made up of males and females.    “The Director of the Department of State Services (DSS) is here and many paramilitary representatives: the DPO Igueben and his men, the Esan Akatakpa Security network, the hunters association have been in the forest since last night doing bush combing. We are hoping that by the end of today, they will be rescued.  “The railway station is in the forest, there is no security, no police, no vigilante and they are at the mercy of God. The kidnappers released two children, it is believed that they felt the children will slow down their movements. They dropped them in an abandoned petrol station, they called the family of the mother of the children that they should go and pick the children from the place they dropped them. One woman also escaped with her little baby. The woman escaped and found herself in Opoji  which is in Esan Central local government area,” he said. Meanwhile, the management of the NRC has shut down the train station.  In its reaction, the the  Federal Government in a statement by the Director, Press and Public Relations, Ministry of Transportation,  Henshaw Ogubike said security agencies were making efforts to rescue all those  kidnapped. “The police  is  on the trail of the criminals to apprehend them and have mobilised with a view to protecting the lives and property of the remaining passengers.”  .Atiku, Okowa, others flay attacks  Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Atiku Abubakar and his running mate, Ifeanyi Okowa have  expressed concern over the attack on the  Igueben train station. Atiku in a statement  charged the Federal Government to allow for state and community policing as a first line of security. He described the attack as the latest in a long condemnable line of security breaches previously unseen in our national history. “While we pray, it is important to also point out that this serves as the latest reminder on the urgent need to reform our security architecture to better safeguard the lives and properties of the Nigerian citizens.” The former Vice President noted that the Constitution may have to be amended to allow for state and community policing as a first line of security. He also noted that the country’s security apparatus “must pay a greater premium to intelligence gathering and crime prevention than our current reactive approach.” Atiku avowed: “It is unacceptable for terrorists to plan attacks of this nature, mobilize arms and ammunition, secure funding and move large numbers of people across large spaces without detection by the security agencies.” On his part, Okowa called on security agents to track the attackers of a passenger train and rescue the kidnapped victims. Okowa who deplored the incident, described it as “very sad and unfortunate.” In the statement  in Asaba, Okowa said activities of gunmen across the country had remained a disturbing phenomenon.