By Zika Bobby  Value Driven Leadership (VDL), a team of professionals committed to reshaping Nigeria’s political and governance landscape, has launched the Obidient Townhall Platform, a mobile application that will ease organisation among supporters of the Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi. The mobile tool, which was launched on Sunday, January 9, 2023, at an event held at Federal Palace Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos, will help Obidients across the country to communicate, coordinate, and plan with one another across wards and polling units by serving as a mobilising and canvassing tool. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. In a statement in Lagos, Mrs Nwamaka Okoye, a Co-convener of the VDL, highlighted the Townhall Platform’s strategic importance to Nigeria and the electioneering process. “Nigeria urgently needs strong electioneering and governance systems to usher in a new generation of leaders. We built the Townhall app to turn online advocacy into offline action,” Okoye said. She added: “With the application, Obidients will receive their day-to-day mandate directly from the campaign, state coordinators, support groups, and polling unit members across the country. “Furthermore, the app will aid the Labour Party’s Presidential Campaign Council to monitor and manage an already successful campaign effectively.” Valentine Ozigbo, Special Adviser to Peter Obi on Technology and Strategic Alliances, described the Townhall platform as a “game changer”, praising VDL for its contribution to the Obi/Datti presidential campaign. Dr Akin Osuntokun, the Director-General of the Labour Party Presidential campaign, addressed the Townhall launch, thanking the team and charging Nigerians not to betray their destiny. Alhaji Ibrahim Abdulkarim, the Director-General of BIG-TENT hailed the Townhall app and describe it as the “masterstroke” “The Townhall app is custom-built to organise OBIdients from National, State, LGA, Wards, to polling units. The App will enable us to canvas better and monitor votes come February 25, 2023,” he said. In his remarks, the Coordinator of Labour Party Presidential Campaign Council for Imo State, Chief Martin Agbaso described the Townhall app as an incredible tool that will help scale the tremendous work done by OBIdients nationwide and propel the Obi-Datti candidacy into office.