From Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, has said that the resignation of former Minister of Health and member of Board of Trustees (BoT) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prof Alphonsus Bosah Chukwurah Nwosu, from the party, was in further support to G-5 Governors’ demand for equity, fairness and justice. The governor warned that if the party remains unyielding in zoning the office of the national chairman to the South, then it should also be willing to face the grave repercussion. He made the declaration when stakeholders of Ogu/Bolo Local Government Area yesterday paid him a solidarity visit at Government House, Port Harcourt. The governor stated that he has continued to challenge the party to the fact that everybody is equal in the country with nobody being a second-class citizen. He said: “I have continued to challenge them. What is the problem? What are we fighting for? What I said and will continue to say is that all of us are from this country. Nobody is a second-class citizen. “We agreed that this is how our party will be. Recently, Prof. A.B.C Nwosu resigned from the party, saying that his conscience will not allow him, that the constitution of the party is clear, if you take this, these other people will take that. Why now are we saying that we won’t do it again? “What the people are saying is look, you have taken this, let these people take that and you are saying you will take all. If you take all, you will also face the repercussions.” The Rivers State governor declared that anybody fighting the state would experience defeat. He maintained that God has blessed the state so much that he would not allow its adversaries to become victorious because the protective wall still remains difficult to penetrate. Wike stressed that even if Rivers State loves peace, it cannot be intimidated and made to succumb to those who just want to milk it and deny its rightful place in the scheme of national politics. His words: “You cannot fight anybody that God has blessed. God has blessed Rivers State. Anybody fighting Rivers State, you are fighting yourself. “Nobody can intimidate us. No one state in this country can intimidate Rivers State. If you want to fight us, we will fight you to the last. “If you want to make peace with us, we will make peace with you to the last. But, thinking that anybody will come and intimidate us and then we will chicken out, that is not possible.” Wike flayed people like Senator George Thompson Sekibo for pitching against the interest of Rivers State, and wondered what benefit he could attract to his people. The governor described Senator Sekibo as an ungrateful politician who believes that only him should be the leading light in his local government. He made reference to the support he gave to ensure that Mr Akin Fakorede, the former  head of the notorious SARS  team in Rivers State, did not succeed in stalling the announcement of the 2015 senatorial election, and footing the legal fees through the election tribunal for him. He insisted that it was time the people of Ogu/Bolo local government and, indeed, all Rivers people stand up together, and boldly too, against those who were working against the interest of the state. Wike announced the award of contract for the construction of Eli Town landing jetty, and the Eteo-Ogu Road in Ogu/Bolo Local Government Area. The governor also assured the payment of reminder contractual sums in the coming week for the remodelled Junior Secondary School in Ogu, sandfilling project, and Kera-K-Dere Road (50 per cent) paid already. Wike disclosed that 100 per cent sum has been paid for the  Kpogor-Wakama Road and urged the contractor handling the project to return to site and speed up work. He stressed that governance was about giving the people confidence, and fulfilling promises made to them. He told them to be ready to return 100 per cent votes enthusiastically the same way they had received projects from his administration, so that the consolidation team that would be headed by Siminialayi Fubara,  the PDP governorship candidate, would win at the polls. In his remarks, the Rivers State Commissioner for Local Government Affairs, Boma Iyaye, acknowledged that the Wike’s administration has given to communities in Ogu/ Bolo Council more projects than they ever requested. While pledging their support to Governor Wike, he said that they would await his directive on the presidential candidate to vote in the forthcoming election. Reading their address, the Amayanabo of Bolo Ama, King Acheseinimie Frank, said that Governor Wike is a systematic source of inspiration to all Rivers people because he has courageously improved the socio-economic and political fortunes of the state.