From Abdulrazaq Mungadi, Gombe The Gombe state governorship candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Khamisu Ahmad Mailantarki, has promised to pay for external examinations of students in the State if elected. He listed fees to be paid by his administration to include the West African Examination Council (WAEC), Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), the National Examination Council (NECO). He also assured that his administration will bridge all gaps and remove blocks hindering quality education in the state. Mailantarki, a former Member of House of Representatives, stated this during the inauguration of the NNPP Gubernatorial Campaign Council at Billiri town, headquarters of Billiri Local Government Area (LGA) of Gombe State. According to him, the burden of educating Gombe children would be borne by the state government, to ensure that parents do not pay a dime as registration fees for all entry examinations into tertiary institutions. He said, “this is because my government will pay all these fees, so that the poor and vulnerable can get the opportunity of quality education. Under my leadership, education will be the right of all Gombe children, irrespective of tribe, religion and ethnicity”. Mailantarki pledged not only to resuscitate the education sector, but to also invest massively in infrastructure in all sectors. He further disclosed that battling poverty, hunger, unemployment and provision of the right economic policies are parts of his plans for the state, to improve the well-being of all citizens, especially women and youths. While appealing to supporters of NNPP and voters in the state to go and collect their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) and elect NNPP candidates at all levels, Mailantarki said, “We are with the ordinary people and I assure you all, we will not disappoint, if you vote us into office in 2023”. He urged his supporters to approach political activities peacefully, and stay away from all forms of violence and thuggery. He said, “Violence is not our style; power is from God, and God willing, we will succeed, so no need for violence”.