From Paul Osuyi, Asaba The governorship candidate of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) in Delta State, Great Ovedje Ogboru, has promised to provide free education from the basic level to the second level if elected. Ogboru made the promise in Oleh, Isoko South Local Government Area, during the party’s campaign flag-off for Delta south senatorial district. He alleged that the state resources had been misappropriated by those who have governed the state, adding that with his administrative acumen, such funds would be utilised to offer free education for all Deltans. Popularly called the ‘Peoples General’ Ogboru said his administration would initiate policies that would outrightly end unemployment in the oil-rich state. “APGA has plans for every Deltan in the area of education, health, agriculture, infrastructural development, environment, investment in comparative areas that we have, to equal opportunities in local government development initiatives. “We have a manifesto that meets the sustainable goals of the United Nations. We know that unemployment is an issue, and we are saying that by this manifesto and all the critical areas that we have mentioned that unemployment will be a thing of the past,” he declared. He said his chances of winning the election were very bright, as there is no more room for manipulation with the introduction of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS), adding that Delta remained a high-profile state that should be governed by a high-profile personality with integrity and credibility. Ogboru declared that the era of using invalid votes and incident forms to elect unpopular candidates was over, adding that 2023 is a jubilee year for APGA. Chairman of APGA in the state Afamefume Enemokwu thanked the party faithful for their “spirit of never give up; we are committed to this race and struggle,” saying that the party was in the race to win. Saying that all the governorship candidates in the state were no match to Ogboru in terms of character and exposure, he said: “I believe the Electoral Act has given us the road to Osadebe House. I believe that BVAS has given us the way.” Chairman of the party’s campaign council, Prince Emma Okotie-Eboh, advised the people against voting for recycled politicians, saying PDP and APC are the same in the state. He noted that Deltans had been facing over 23 years of PDP misrule in the state, urging the people to make the state great again by electing Ogburu as governor in 2023. The party’s senatorial candidates in Delta Central and South, Peters Omaruaye and George Timinimi respectively said the party have all it takes to win the election.