From Kenneth Udeh   Constituents of Iyiowa Community in Anambra North Senatorial District have vowed to reciprocate the goodwill gestures of Senator Stella Oduah in their localities with their votes during the February 25th National Assembly elections.   The assurances of the electorates came on the heels of two newly constructed water boreholes and a water treatment plant provided for them by Stella Oduah currently representing the zone at the National Assembly. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.   According to the Deputy Chairman, Senate Committee on Appropriations, her decision to install the community with sources of clean pipe borne water was to improve the health status of her constituents. She maintained that the consumption of clean water will serve as a panacea to waterborne diseases such as typhoid, cholera, dysentery and many other water transmitted ailments.   The boreholes and treatment plant which are situated at Community Primary School Iyiowa and Acha Street Iyiowa respectively were installed with  multiple outlets to serve the populace of Iyiowa Odekpe.   At a short commission ceremony held on Monday at the premises where the projects were installed Stella Oduah was represented by the persons of the PDP Chairman of Ogbaru LGA,  Hon. Azubuike Odiakosa and Former State Youth Leader of the PDP , Hon Chinedu Okwuosah.   Stressing the importance of the projects Azubuike who spoke on behalf of the Senator held that Stella’s PDP party would continue to uphold the interest of the masses. The Party Chairman charged the community to imbibe maintenance culture inorder prolong the efficiency of the projects.   Azubuike urged the community to secure the boreholes; “This water project attests to how important the People’s Democratic Party where Stella belongs prioritises the interest of the masses.   “It’s not enough to just gather here and rejoice , but it’s is very important that members of this community imbibe the maintenance culture,  there should be people who will be saddled with the responsibility of watching over these projects. With that it can last for 20 years and above if properly maintained.   Expressing his gratitude on behalf of the elated residents,  President General of Iyiowa Landlord Association Chief Agozie Okoye labelled the lawmaker as a pace setter and  commended her for citing the projects where it is needed most.   Agozie , disclosed that water boreholes will ameliorate the suffering of the community residents in numerous ways , he conveyed the Community’s resolve to return the Stella’s gesture with their votes during the election.   Agozie assured that the community would maintain the projects; “Tell her we are very grateful and joyful. This project will serve many purposes the same way she remembered us is the same way we shall remember her with our votes during next Month’s elections”.