From Scholastica Onyeka Makurdi A group named Alia Media Volunteers, (AMVO), has flayed what they described as paid media campaigns against the forthcoming governorships primaries rerun of the All Progressives Congress, (APC), in Benue state. In a statement signed by the group’s Convener and State Director, Amande Msughter Solomon and Tofi Ternenge respectively, the group is accusing the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, of sponsoring the media campaigns to to divert the attention of the people from the real issues at stake. The group was reacting to the recent outing by the Benue Youth Forum concerning the planned APC gubernatorial rerun primaries slated for 1st and 2nd of February in 11 local governments areas in Benue State.   They frowned that in speaking about the planned rerun, BYF described it as illegal and recipe for chaos in the state. The group said the forum’s outing was not only a planned gimmick to misinform the Benue people, the general public, and Nigerians in general but also a ploy to insight the people against one another. According to them “we have uncovered the evil plan of the PDP-led government in Benue state in which we are reliably informed that they have recruited miscreants, mercenaries and paid thugs to cause chaos in the state during the APC governorship rerun primaries part of which is the media stunt by Benue Youth Forum to raise unnecessary alarm. “As Benue citizens, we have considered it paramount at this point to conscientize the minds of Benue people and Nigerians to this ugly development.” AMVO called on security agents to immediately arrest and interrogate the leader of Benue Youth Forum if there is any crisis during the APC governorship rerun primaries of 1st and 2nd February. In a swift reaction, the PDP Publicity Secretary Benue state, Bemgba Iortyom, said the confusion in APC is so glaring for even the blind to see saying the PDP does not need to sponsor any media campaigns for the public to know that the party is still trapped in a maze of litigations just days to the general elections. “APC in Benue ought to be ashamed of the untidiness in the party where at this stage very close to the elections they are running from pillar to post not even sure when and how they may conduct a primary election to nominate their governorship candidate. “We do not have time to waste on APC’s affairs, for we are busy in our campaigns having only recently rounded up our local government areas tour led by Governor Samuel Ortom with our governorship candidate, Engr. Titus Uba and other leaders in tow. Presently, the First Lady, Dr. Eunice Ortom is leading women and youths on another round of local government areas tour. “We have our focus resolutely on the coming elections and can’t be distracted by the confusion in APC,” Bemgba said.