From Tony John, Port Harcourt The All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council in Rivers State, has appealed to the G-5 governors to support the Tinubu/Shettima candidacy ahead of the 2023 general elections. The council, while briefing newsmen in Port Harcourt, on Thursday, said the support for Tinubu was imperative in order to enable him replicate in the country, the transformation he carried out in  Lagos State, which was described as a dungeon before 1999. Speaking, a member of the APC PCC in Rivers State, Tony Okocha,  accused the Rivers State APC governorship campaign train of not campaigning for the candidature of Asiwaju/Shettima in the state. Okocha said since the APC in Rivers State has been enmeshed in several disputes, the national body of the party should make the upcoming presidential campaign in the state a whole day event in order to settle the dispute in the state. He said: “We request that the leadership of APC and PCC in Rivers State should vigorously campaign for AsiwajuTinubu/Shettima or leave the scene for those who are willingly ready to do so. “The leadership of APC and PCC in Rivers State should not discriminate those who are ready and willing to work for Asiwaju/Shettima presidency whether they are full-fledged members of the party or not. “We will work for Asiwaju/Shettima presidency  and we will win Rivers State overwhelmingly and not just deliver the 25 percent required votes. “We call on the G-5 governors and other willing Nigerians to swing their support for Asiwaju/Shettima, to cruise into the presidential villa to enable him (Tinubu) replicate in Nigeria the same transformation in Lagos which was a dungeon before 1999.” Also speaking, the Coordinator of Tinubu/Shettima Independent Campaign Council (ICC) in Rivers State, Mr. Augustine Wokocha, said the ICC alone would provide over 3 million voters for APC at the presidential election. Wokocha said, “Already, we have 51 registered support groups who will campaign and support the Tinubu/Shettima presidency. We will soon constitute a 224,000 units representatives across the various units because we believe that Nigeria will be better under Tinubu.”