From Obinna Odogwu, Awka The Federal Government, on Tuesday, flagged off the disbursement of its cash grants for vulnerable groups (GVG) and other National Social Investment Programmes in Anambra State. A total of 3,222 poor and vulnerable Nigerians in rural and semi-urban areas in the state are expected to benefit from the programme; and each would be given the sum of N20,000 by the government. Similarly, through its Government Enterprise Empowerment Programmes (GEEP) such as TraderMoni, MarketMoni and FarmerMoni, some other persons would also secure loans of up to N50,000 to support their businesses. The FarmerMoni aspect of the loan scheme, according to the government, was designed to provide agricultural inputs worth up to a maximum of N300,000 to rural farmers. Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq, said that the GVG was President Muhammadu Buhari’s manifesto fulfilment project introduced in 2020. At the event which was held at Prof. Dora Akunyili Women’s Development Centre, Awka, the minister said that the programme was mainly aimed at lifting Nigerians out of poverty. Farouq, represented by Charles Anaelo, a Deputy Director in the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, said that the government would continue to work for the good of the people. “The GVG is designed to provide a one-off cash grant of N20,000 to the poorest and most vulnerable Nigerians in rural and semi-urban areas across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory. “Our target in Anambra State is to disburse the grant to 3,222 beneficiaries across the 21 Local Government Areas in the state. It is worthy to note that 70 percent of these beneficiaries must be women, while the remaining 30percent is for youths. “Mr. President has further directed that at least 15percent of the total number of beneficiaries must specifically be allocated to citizens with special needs, including Persons with Disability (PWDs) and Senior Citizens in the state.” The minister also flagged off the Government Enterprise Empowerment Programme (GEEP 2.0), handed over the National HomeGrown School Feeding Programme’s (NHGSFP) height and weight scales and inspected the Farm-to-Kitchen Centre.