Constituents of Umunneochi Local Government Area of Abia North, Abia State, have again become beneficiaries of another road project facilitated by Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, senator representing the zone at the National Assembly. The ongoing road project, Umueze Isi-Obinolu Road in Obinolu Ngodo Isouchi, Umunneochi adds to other road works executed by the Abia North Senator within his three and a half years at the Senate. Recall that last year the Chief Whip of the Senate announced the construction of additional nine rural road projects for Umunneochi LGA. Some of the roads include: 1km Ogwumabiri rural road; construction of 1km Umuaku Isuochi rural road; construction of 1km Aroikpa  rural road; construction of 1km Lekwesi Umuchieze rural road; construction of 1km Ubahu Nneato rural road; construction of 1km Amauba Obulo rural road, Nneato and construction of 1km rural road at Obilorji Isuochi road.  The 2km Umueze Obinolu road under construction, which has double drainages, has reached advanced stage with accelerated asphalting. The development has since thrown the community into massive jubilation being the first of its kind since the existence of the community. In a brief chat with the Sunday Sun, a community youth stakeholder, Comrade Paul, eulogised Senator Kalu for the durability of the work being done. According to Paul the entire community were indeed grateful to Kalu for remembering them in his infrastructural development drive in Abia North. Paul declared the resolve of the community to reward Kalu with their votes: “Since I was born I’ve never seen a tarred road in this community. The traditional leaders and the entire villagers will forever remain grateful to Kalu because this project will improve our economic activities. I am happy I’m alive to witness this happening with my two eyes. “This road is just one aspect, Kalu has worked on our schools, installed solar-powered street lights to improve our security. His tenure at the Senate is satisfactory and we assure him of our votes in the forthcoming elections.” Others who spoke said the completed and ongoing road projects delivered with drainage were the best dividends of democracy they had ever received in their entire history. Aside the construction of schools, health centers and provision of pipe-borne water for communities, Kalu in over three and half years facilitated the construction of over 60 roads spread across rural communities in Abia North. On education, Kalu also facilitated the construction and reconstruction of schools coupled with the distribution of learning materials at various schools in Umunneochi. Some of the beneficiary schools include Isuochi Secondary School (old Methodist Secondary School) at Nkwoagu isuochi; Umuaku Secondary School; Umulem Central School; Isuochi (Ngodo) Technical School; Umuaku Central School; Lomara Secondary School; Lokpanta Primary School; Lekwesi Central School; Ugwu Leru Primary School; Nneato Central School; Maria Assumpta Primary School, Eziama Nneato; Holy Rosary Secondary School, Obulo Nneato; Eziama Central School; Nneato Central School, Ebelebe and Ndi Awa secondary school, Isuochi and among others.