By Henry Uche The leadership of Royal Exchange General Insurance Company Limited headed by Mrs. Ebelechukwu Benedicta Nwachukwu, managing director/CEO,  said it is set to drive growth and profit for the company. Giving this charge at a press conference in Lagos, the Board Chairman, Ike Chioke, said Mrs Nwachukwu will seek to drive the continuous growth and profitability of the company with her extensive experience and knowledge of the insurance industry and make the company a market leader in general insurance business in Nigeria. According to him, “Nwachukwu, brings close to three decades of versatile and trusted experience to Royal Exchange Insurance, with a track record of excellence and performance, having previously led two (2) insurance companies in Nigeria, and we are confident in her ability to take the company to even greater heights.” He explains her mission thus, “Ebele is expected to focus on our transformation agenda as we seek to diversify our business lines and focus on the retail insurance space. We have a vision to attain and maintain market leadership in terms of profitability and excellent service. “For us at the board, we see her as someone who can drive this vision, as we seek to be a top 3 general insurance firm in Nigeria. This is the goal and expectation of the investors and the Board, within the next 3-5 years.” Chioke added that, “Our strategic direction in the next five years focuses on growth and profitability with the aim of growing the company’s gross premium written and be amongst the Top-3 general insurance companies in the market. “To achieve these objectives, we intend to increase our focus on the direct/retail market segment as well as the agricultural sector. We will continue to innovate and differentiate our products offerings, invest in research and technology to build capacity, undertake market insights for strategy and decision-making, and reposition our brand as reliable, innovative and more visible across all the market segments. “Our company seeks to undertake an improvement in our service delivery, optimise our operational capabilities and engage, develop and retain the best human capital to make Royal Exchange General Insurance Company one of the best places to work in Nigeria.”