From David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi Atiku–Okowa presidential management committee has assured that if Atiku Abubakar wins  the presidential election, it would be a blessing to the South East. Director General of the presidential campaign in the Anambra State, Prof. Obiora Okonkwo,  said this in Awka. He insisted that the victory of Atiku would be enough tonic to appease the South East and restore the country to  stability.  According to him,  the problem in the country is due to failure of the Federal Government to address national issues, adding that it had  continued to threaten the unity of the country and affected the economy of the South East and the country, generally.  Okonkwo called  for more support for Atiku, saying his presidency would re-organise the nation from the day of inception and stabilise democracy.  Speaking to  the Inter-Party Advisory Committee (IPAC) where over 160 Atiku support groups were in attendance, Okonkwo told them that what is paramount for the South East is true federalism and a liberalised economy, which he said Atiku had made  core issue  in his campaign. “It was  our founding political fathers, Nnamdi Azikiwe and Alex Ekwueme that  said  given our political complexities in Nigeria, no single region can win the Presidency alone, hence the need for an alliance, which we must begin to cultivate with the support for Atiku Abubakar.  “With Atiku’s victory, most of our problems will be solved and Nigerians are  wishing for the PDP to return to power. It’s best for the South East to align strategically and take advantage of Atiku’s imminent victory to address all issues  in the region.” It’s also worthy of note that with Ifeanyi Okowa, an Igbo man from Delta State being on the ticket with him, the South East has interest in the election.  “Being a former Vice President and well-known in the country’s polity, Atiku is the most qualified, experienced, and respected contender in this race. Only Atiku has so far pledged to restructure Nigeria and devolve  power across regions, and given his track record and identity as a pan-Nigerian, we have no doubt that he would keep his word. Atiku is expected to win in Anambra State and the South East due to the presidential management committee in the State ‘s determination to win as always in the State,” he said.