From Judex Okoro, Calabar The Cross River People’s Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Prof Sandy Onor, has called on traditional rulers in the northern senatorial district of the state to invoke the gods and bees to sting anybody or group of persons who would attempt to rig the upcoming general elections. Speaking at a consultative meeting with the traditional rulers in Ogoja on Wednesday, Onor said it is high time the royal fathers lived up to their responsibilities by telling the political leaders the truth about the feelings of their subjects at all times and not keeping quiet even when things are going wrong. He maintained that the moment the traditional rulers take such disposition, politicians would stop lying endlessly, adding that the rate politicians make bogus promises are becoming alarming and derailing our democratic development “It is high time the royal fathers used the traditional means to deal with the people who go against the land. If you keep quiet and refuse to say anything, who would rescue us,” the candidate said. “All over the world, people are taking democracy very seriously. So, you must take decisions that would change society by voting for serious-minded people. “Chiefs should invoke the gods and possibly release bees to sting anybody who wants to disrupt or rig the election in Cross River. This would checkmate election rigging.” He promised to look into their welfare if voted into power, saying: “I would run a participatory government where all critical stakeholders would be involved if reconstructing the state. Also speaking, Sen. Jarigbe Agom Jarigbe, representing the northern senatorial district, said:“We are about returning the lost glory, we know your stipends are a sorry situation even Ayade’s gateman earns more than all of you here. “From today, I will pay you a 100 per cent increase on your monthly stipend until the new leadership takes over.” Responding, the Paramount Ruler of Ogoja, HRM. Oti Mathias Abua, represented by Chief Buturu Slyvanus Abuo, the clan head of Ekumtak, said: “I have had the opportunity to work with some politicians. We believe that power comes from God. ” Victory is yours from what I have seen. We want a peaceful election without bitterness so that we can celebrate you all the winners.”