By Henry Akubuiro When Apostle Chibuzor Gift Chinyere, the General Overseer of Omega Power Ministry, left Port Harcourt for Lagos as an adventurer, he struggled to make ends meet. These hard experiences, later in life, made him empathic for the downtrodden. At present, he not only uses the gospel of Jesus Christ to bring succour to all, but also uses his resources to cater to the needs of the down-trodden.  Born October 22, 1973 in Ohanku Ndoki, in Ukwa East Local Government Area of Abia State, Apostle Chinyere began his Christian life from the Jehovah’s Witness Christian denomination but later settled for the Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries, where he became a House Fellowship teacher and subsequently, a freelance preacher of the gospel. Four years later, through divine inspiration, he founded the Omega Power Ministries, popularly known as OPM. He floated a humanitarian arm of the ministry called the OPM Foundation, thereafter, which has become a dependable platform for humanitarian services. Through the Foundation, the Apostle has built 21 state-of-the-art free Nursery and Primary Schools for the less privileged. The schools, funded from Tithe and Offering, are completely free for all comers, irrespective of denomination. Under the Foundation’s free education programme, each student receives four pairs of school uniforms, bags, books, and other writing materials for free. The Church also embarks on a free school feeding programme in all the schools. No fewer than 45,000 less privileged Nigerians have benefited and are still benefitting from the programme.  Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere also built the first free school for Autism and Down syndrome in the world in addition to two free Specialist Hospitals in Rivers and Abia states for the less privileged pregnant women. At the hospitals, registration, antenatal services, drugs, scan, surgery, and delivery are free. By this, Apostle Chinyere has contributed to reducing the high rate of maternal mortality in Nigeria.  Under the OPM Foundation, there are 18 free estates where the less privileged, repentant armed robbers, kidnappers, and militants who laid down their arms live while undergoing rehabilitation. The free estate also accommodates repentant prostitutes who were relocated from brothels after they had given their lives to God. Their clothing, feeding and upkeep are taken care of by the church. The Ministry also has a free restaurant for the less privileged.