… cashless policy,fuel scarcity prevent Kano,Jigawa, Zamfara to participate   From Olanrewaju Lawal,Birnin Kebbi  Kaduna boys and Kebbi girls teams have won the 4th National  U-17 Northwest Cricket held in Birnin Kebbi,Kebbi state capital.   The Competition, which involved  the states  with teams from Kaduna,Kebbi,Sokoto,Zamfara,Kano and Jigawa states were categorized into male and female categories.   However,only Kaduna, Sokoto,Kebbi participated in the competition which lasted for three days due to other States inability to sponsor their teams to the venue as a result of fuel scarcity, naira redesigned and cashless policy.   In the male category, Kaduna boys won their matches with 63 runs while Kebbi boys which emerged the second runners up got 59 runs.   In the female category,Kebbi girls emerged as the overall winner while Kaduna girls won second runner up.   Addressing the participants, National President of the Nigeria Cricket Federation, Mr. Uyi Akpata,represented by the Technical Director of the Federation, Mr.Joseph Eshua expressed satisfaction with the performances of the teams at the tournament.   He noted that” these boys and girls, who are within ages of 10,14,15 years have shown good performances. I am impressed the way they are playing. If they continue this way and they go for trial for professional games ,they would excel”.   He charged them to be discipline, hardworking stressed that their experience would never be wasted.   Earlier the Acting Permanent Secretary of the Kebbi State Ministry of Sports and Youth Development, Alhaji Usman Ladan,who is also Zonal Representative of the Federation, said the state government are trying to revive Cricket game with the participations of young boys and girls from schools, stressed that,by catching them hound,Nigeria would get best players to represent her in any international tournament.   “You are very young, you should be committed, focus, discipline so that,you can be selected among the national players”, he said.  Prices and trophy were given to best Batter,best Bowler and MVP of the tournament in both male and female categories.