By Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Aidoghie Paulinus and Fred Ezeh, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has commiserated with Pope Francis, the Catholic Church in Nigeria and around the world, as well as all Christian faithful who mourn the passing of Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI. Pope Emeritus, Benedict XVI, died yesterday morning at 9:34am. The Holy See Press Office announced that the Pope Emeritus passed away at the Mater Ecclesiae Monastery in the Vatican. He was aged 95 In a statement by Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, Buhari paid tribute to Benedict XVI, who was greatly admired globally for his selfless leadership, renowned learning as a theologian, and dedication to advance inter-faith dialogue and peace. President Buhari said the late Pontiff would be remembered as a true servant of God who used the benevolent gifts of the Almighty upon his life to serve the Church and humanity in humility, reverence and piety, living in word and deed the virtues of a true Christian disciple. Reacting to the demise Pope Benedict XVI, the Archbishop Emeritus of the Catholic Archdiocese of Abuja, John Cardinal Onaiyekan, said he would continue to treasure memories of his association with Pope Benedict XVI.  His words: “On two levels, natural and supernatural. Natural, I miss a precious role model, spiritual father and friend who made me a Cardinal. I will continue to treasure memories of my association with him. “On the supernatural level, I rejoice that his earthly journey is over, successfully and fruitfully. Having spent 95 years in the service of God and the Church, he has certainly run a good race and kept the faith. His reward is sure in paradise, for which I rejoice with him and for him. We have a new Saint in heaven to pray for us. God bless him.” Former Governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Kalu  commiserated with the Catholic community all over the world and Christians in general over the demise of Pope Emeritus Bendedict XVI. Acknowledging the contributions of the former Pope to the growth and progress of the Catholic community, Kalu called on religious leaders across the globe to emulate the attributes of the deceased. Kalu said the late Pope Emeritus would be sorely missed across the globe for his service to humanity. In the vein, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), said it was saddened by the demise of Emeritus Catholic Pontiff, Pope Benedict XVI, who died yesterday morning. CAN described the late Pontiff as a great theologian whose life epitomised the balance of faith, reason and works in ways that positively influenced both Catholics and non-Catholics throughout the world.  CAN President, Archbishop Daniel Okoh, in a statement paid tribute to Pope Benedict XVI whom he said spent his days in the service of the Church, speaking to the hearts and minds of men with the spiritual, cultural and intellectual depth he possessed. He said the late Pope also devoted his soul and intelligence to God for a more fraternal world, and had died in the Mater Ecclesiae monastery, a house dedicated to prayer and self-sacrifice within the walls of the Vatican Gardens The Holy See Press Office in a statement disclosed that from tomorrow, January 2, the body of the Pope Emeritus would be in Saint Peter’s Basilica so the faithful can bid farewell. Vatican News reported that for several days, the health conditions of the pope emeritus worsened due to advancing age. Pope Francis himself publicly shared the news about his predecessor’s worsening health at the end of the last General Audience of the year, on 28 December.