From Gyang Bere, Jos Gbong Gwom Jos, Da Jacob Gyang Buba, has urged parents to teach their children moral virtues, customs and traditions that will enthrone peaceful co-existence in the country. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari for given order that history should be thought in secondary schools across the country. Buba stated this, yesterday, during the 2023 new year prayer and luncheon for Berom Trust Fund at his palace in Jos. He described 2022 as a difficult year coupled with the challenges of insecurity, economic turbulent and thank God for providing all the enablement to overcome the challenges.  Buba called on politicians, particularly from the Berom extraction, to embrace one another and shun anything that will lead to distrust, bitterness and unfortunate situations. He urged traditional rulers to be firm on issues of preserving the Berom cultural heritage and refrain from signing land documents except on genuine issues that will advance development. He appreciated the senator representing Plateau North, Istifanus Gyang, for contributing resources for the rebuilding and resettlement of Jong community in Barkin-Ladi which was displaced in 2015. Buba called on other politicians and philanthropists to work towards the resettlement of other displaced communities in Berom land and thank Edward Pwajok for being committed towards addressing the plights of those whose lands were taken forcefully. Former state governor, Jonah David Jang, admonished politicians to be diligent and committed to the development of the people. He urged them to shun politics of bitterness, back biting, malice and embrace those who are in leadership positions for the growth of the people. Gyang thanked the sons and daughters of Berom land for contributing to the advancement of the Berom people and Plateau State.  He said the Berom people will continue to embrace all ethnic nationalities residence in Berom land and Plateau, and urged them to respect the culture and customs of the people for peaceful co-existence.