By Henry Akubuiro  Last year ended on a high with the graduation of the first set of trainees at the Skill Acquisition Centre, Marama, in Hawul Local Government Area of Borno State.  Established in 2020, the centre had an initial intake of 74 students drawn from different localities, who were trained in skills, such as computer literacy, tailoring, knitting, and catering, with the support of Bura Women Development Association (BUWDA) and Marama Community Development Association (MCDA).  Impressed by the efforts of BUDWA, the Borno State Ministry of Women  Affairs and the state government, led by Professor Babagana Umara Zulum, intervened along the line. At the graduation ceremony on the 31st of December, 2022, which doubled as the formal opening of the centre and fundraising ceremony, Hajiya Zuwaira Gambo, the Commissioner, Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development, Borno State, thanked BUWDA for  initiating such a lofty project, which had impacted greatly on the vulnerable in the society, especially the girl-child.  Also, in her remarks, the President of BUWDA, Mrs Asta Paul Thahal, paid special tribute to the state governor  for his support to the association to complete the project.  The Bura Women Development Association (BUDWA) was inaugurated in 2014, two years after the idea was mooted by a group of six Bura women in Abuja, with the motto – Mwardzi Gina Mastuwa (Wealth/money cannot buy fellowship). The association was aimed at promoting the spirit of self-reliance among members and to enhance skills and capacity building of Bura women and youth on agriculture, organic farm practice and entrepreneurship. It was also aimed at enhancing the general development of communities in Bura, among others. The Skill Acquisition Centre, Bura, which stares at you as you approach the Marama community, is a complex of several  buildings. The main complex contains four linked blocks. The centre also has a female hostel and a male hostel, each with more than three blocks. The administrative block contains the principal’s office, staff rooms, a conference hall, a GSM classroom, a computer classroom, a tie and dying classroom, a tailoring and fashion classroom equipped with auto mechanic and welding tools and equipment.  There is also a mechanic workshop, knitting classroom, panel beating and spraying workshop, a demonstration kitchen and a hairdressing classroom. The matron’s quarters is made up of a room and parlour.  The male hostel and female hostels are furnished with double bunks and mattresses.