The Nigerian movie industry has lost a renowned filmmaker and trailblazer in the death of Peace Anyiam-Osigwe, the founder of African Movie Academy Awards (AMAA). The celebrated entertainment personality and the Chief Executive Officer of the Africa Film Academy (AFA) died in a Lagos hospital on January 9, 2023, at the age of 53. Regarded as one of the pillars of the Nollywood films, she contributed so much to the creative industry in Nigeria, Africa and the world. In a statement to announce her demise, the family, among others, stated: “Peace, the Ada of Anyiam-Osigwe family, was an outstanding personality, trailblazer, and visionary leader in the film and television industry.” Her death is a great loss to Nigeria’s movie and entertainment industry. She will be missed by her fans and numerous admirers. Anyiam-Osigwe was a great role model and an inspiration to many in the nation’s film and entertainment industry. We urge those in the industry to emulate her shining examples. Anyiam-Osigwe did a lot to improve the quality of Nigerian films and also promoted them globally by exposing them to international film festivals. Since her passage, prominent Nigerians, including politicians and players in the film and entertainment industry, have extolled her immense contributions to the nation’s movie industry. In his tribute to the late movie icon, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Film Corporation (NFC), Dr. Chidia Maduekwe, said: “Peace Anyiam-Osigwe’s role in uplifting the professional competencies of filmmakers, content development for the small and big screen; film distribution and marketing, film festivals and awards and film policy development are remarkable.” The queen of Nollywood films, who pioneered the screening of Nollywood films at international film festivals, was born on March 30, 1969 into the notable Anyiam-Osigwe family of Nkwerre in Imo State. She also directed the first music video of the hip-hop sensation duo, P-Square. The lawyer and philanthropist went to Oxford Brookes University for a degree in Law and Political Science. The Africa Movie Academy Awards (AMAA), which she founded, is one of the recognised awards for Africans in the film industry. She used her AfricaOne initiative to celebrate Africans in the entertainment industry. In 2020, she was elected the National President of the Association of Movie Producers (AMP). Anyiam-Osigwe reportedly initiated the 100 films project to essentially improve the quality of films produced in the country. For her contribution to the nation’s film and entertainment industry, Anyiam-Osigwe was conferred with the national award of Member of the Order of the Federal Republic (MFR) in 2012 under the administration of Dr. Goodluck Jonathan. In 2019, she received the African Film Pioneer Award. She was also a TED Fellow. The Anyiam-Osigwe family has promised to sustain her legacies, including the AMAA and AFA as well as her charities. According to her family, “we, as a family and clan, will continue to do all that is necessary to ensure that her legacy lives on. The Africa Movie Academy Awards (AMAA), the Africa Film Academy (AFA) along with their training programmes across Nigeria and the African continent will be carried on seamlessly.” Beyond her exploits in the movie and entertainment industry, the deceased wrote three books of poetry. She described poetry as one of the avenues for expressing her perception and understanding of things around her. She had published a magazine, Clicks, specifically meant to accommodate the black population in England. Most of her works are centred on advocacy causes. Her television discussion show, Piece Off My Mind, focused mainly on people’s reaction to societal issues not regularly shown in the mainstream media. The talk show centred on advocacy issues for individuals neglected by the society. Her areas of interest in film and television covered the African caste system, child trafficking and women equality. Although Peace Anyiam-Osigwe had immortalised herself through her works in the film and entertainment industry, we still urge the Federal Government to honour her. Imo State government can equally do so. We commiserate with the Anyiam-Osigwe family, Nigeria’s film and entertainment industry and her numerous fans and admirers over the great loss. May her creative soul rest in peace.