From Charity Nwakaudu, Abuja For Abuja residents, this January has been the harshest in recent years. And they rightly dubbed it so for two reasons. First, the general elections is preceded by currency redesign that has upset the financial ecosystem. Second, it is witnessing the highest inflation rate in recent times, making the cost of goods and services beyond the reach of average residents. Against all odds, families have tightened their belts and are braving the challenges. Those who spoke with Daily Sun said they were extremely frugal in December because they knew what January of an election year usually holds. Olivia Ume, a businesswoman in the Dutse Alhaji, Kubwa, said: “I have already saved for January. I was supposed to collect my contribution in December 2022, but I left it for January so that I won’t go through too much stress and I hope it will carry me through. “Usually, January comes with so much spendings and challenges. But when you prepare for it, then everything becomes quite easy. Though it is not even easy to save money with the rate at which prices of things are going higher everyday.” She advised parents and individuals to always save so as to overcome the financial stress that is usually faced at the beginning of the year, especially after spending heavily at Yuletide. Michael Okpe, a public servant said: “I lived from hand-to-mouth between January and February 2021. But today, I’m much wiser. Things are moving according to plans because I planned ahead. Though there are still some other things that are yet to be met but I’m hoping that they will be settled in February.” He also said management of schools should show consideration especially with the nature of Nigerian economy: “They should try and understand the situation of the country. I can save because I receive a monthly salary. What about those who have to toil to get money? So, they should be considerate and allow the children to study and learn while we the parents will do our best to settle things.” He hoped things would get better after the elections so that normalcy would be restored in the nation’s economy: “As things are today, the economy is not friendly. As I am speaking, a friend is planning to withdraw his children from a good private school to another. I feel for her, I just hope things will be better in this country.” Anita Hassan, a mother of two, said she really did not prepare for January because her December salary was yet to be paid: “I will just find a way to go around the whole situation. I know I will meet up with school fees and others bills. “But for now, I will just sort things out the way I can. I can’t go bothering others. I will just manage until money comes. But we had a splendid Christmas and New Year celebrations.” Patience Sylvanus, a nurse at a private hospital in Bwari, said: “The situation in the country is trying to make things difficult. But trust us Nigerians, we will always know how to come out of it. That is not to say that things should keep going worse.” She was surprised when her son’s bill was sent to her from his school. It was higher than what she expected. Since this is second term, she thought there should be less activities. She then paid what she could afford: “I cannot kill myself. Some of those extra curriculum can be done during the holiday when I am prepared for them.” Friday Ogenyi, a resident of Wuse, said he was prepared for the second term resumption before something happened: “I normally prepared ahead of every term for my children’s school fees and provisions for those living in school. “But this year, it took another dimension. One of my kids took ill in December and all the money that I saved went  into hospital bills. This is the second week of resumption yet my wards have not returned to school. I have not been able to settle their bills.” Titus Ameh was grateful to God for the success of his wards in the previous term. He expressed optimism that the new term would also be a great academic success for them. He, however, confessed that school resumption is always a nightmare for him, especially first term when parents spend lots of money because of the movement of the children to new classes or possibly new schools: “I am not paying for books this term. But I still have to settle school fees, which involves thousands of naira. However, my children just resumed school and I am highly optimistic that I will pay their school fees before the end of January.” Usman, a civil servant, said: “Though it is not first term, it has not been easy for me.  I have not paid for my children’s tuition. I am not even sure of when to pay. Feeding and transportation are taking almost all my pay.”