From Scholastica Onyeka, Makurdi and Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, has backed the recent call by the National Assembly, urging President Muhammadu Buhari to consider an extension of the deadline for the use of old naira notes. The Governor stated this at Government House in Makurdi, on Wednesday, during a courtesy visit by the newly inaugurated Governing Council of Joseph Saawuan Tarka University, Makurdi, (JOSTUM). Ortom who noted that the deadline is just six days away, wondered how the people in far-flunged Benue communities and hinterlands would evacuate all their old notes before its expiration. “By the date of the deadline, I’m aware we have just six days left. How are we going to transfer the old notes in my village knowing people are going there to buy rice, yams one other goods. “Even as Governor, I have not seen any new note. We don’t have any issues with other policies of government but on this one, I join the the National Assembly to call on the president to look at the deadline critically with a view to extend it. “Our people have gone through a lot of pains. What will happen to the men and women in my village and elsewhere who are trading? How will they change their monies? People are suffering and are not happy. Mr president needs to look at it again so as not to deepen the hardship of our people,” Ortom said. While congratulating the new governing council of JOSTUM, Ortom who appreciated them for visiting him said he is committed to the welfare of all federal institutions in the state because Benue citizens are the direct beneficiaries of them all. Earlier, the Acting Vice Chancellor, Professor Paul Anune, sympathized with Governor Ortom on the recent killings of Benue citizens describing it as painful. The Pro Chancellor and Chairman of the Governing Council Edith Uwajumogu, told the Governor that this was the first time a female is the Pro Chancellor of the university. Meanwhile, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has directed all banks in Imo State to henceforth dispense the new naira notes with their ATM machines. Director Financial Policy and Regulator, of the bank, Chibuzo Efobi gave the directive after meeting with representatives of the banks and POS agents in Owerri on Wednesday. He bemoaned the flagrant disobedience of the banks in issuing the new naira notes to their customers and instead making it available to those some individuals who abuse it in ceremonies. Efobi noted that with the directive,the banks would be forced to comply to the rules of the apex bank. Meanwhile, he has reiterated that the deadline for the swap of the old currency with the new one remains sacrosanct.