By Rita Okoye As the curtain finally closed on the year 2022, there were notable events that made it a special one. Here is a glimpse of the good, the bad and the ugly moments that shaped the year, especially in the Nigerian entertainment sector. Please, enjoy it. Weddings/engagements For some Nigerian celebrities, the 2022 marked the beginning of marital bliss. Top entertainers, like MI Abaga, Mercy Chinwo, Rita Dominic, Kemi Adetiba, Tim Godfrey, Frederick Leonard and Peggy Ovire, Nikki Laoye and Soul Snatcha, Blossom Chukwujekwu and Winifred Akhuemokhan, took their fans by surprise, as they tied the knots with their lovers. These are some celebrity weddings and engagements that made the year thick. MI Abaga Veteran rapper, Jude Abaga aka MI, married his fiancée, Eniola Mafe, in a church ceremony on Saturday, September 24, 2022. Prior to this, Abaga, also known as ‘The Guy’, had traditionally tied the knot on Thursday, September 23, 2022. Mercy Chinwo Gospel artiste, Mercy Chinwo, dazzled her fans on June 23, 2022, when she announced her engagement to Blessed Uzochikwa, the resident pastor at Water Brook Church, Lagos. On Saturday, August 13, 2022, the couple tied the knot in a church ceremony, a day after their traditional marriage in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. Rita Dominic and Fidelis Anosike Screen diva, Rita Dominic, on Saturday, November 26, 2022, married renowned publisher, Fidelis Anosike, at a manor in North Yorkshire, England. This is coming seven months after the actress and her husband did their traditional marriage in her hometown in Imo State on April 19, 2022. Frederick Leonard and Peggy Ovire Nollywood actor, Fredrick Leonard, went public about his romance with his colleague, Peggy Ovire, on the latter’s birthday on October 21, 2022. Peggy and Freddie finally married on November 19 in the actress’ hometown in Warri, Delta State. Tim Godfrey Gospel artiste, Tim Godfrey, on February 16, announced his engagement to his beau, Erica Katrina Jones from Anambra State. On Saturday, April 23, 2022, the worship leader and his bride held their white wedding at a ceremony, which took place in Culpeper, VA, United States of America. Kemi Adetiba To her fans’ surprise, movie director and producer, Kemi Adetiba, announced her engagement to music executive, Oscar Heman-Ackah, on February 9, 2022. The King of Boys’ director tied the knot in April at a registry, and this came before her colourful, star-studded traditional marriage ceremony same month. Nikki Laoye and Soul Snatcha Popular gospel singer, Nikki Laoye, tied the knot with fellow singer, Kunle Adeyoola, aka Soul Snatcha, on Friday, March 18. Nikki shared pictures of the ceremony on her Instagram page, as she appreciated those who contributed to her wedding. Temi Otedola and Mr Eazi Although the wedding dates have not been made public, the duo set the Internet ablaze after Mr Eazi popped the question. From all indications, their wedding is going to make the list of top celebrity events that would rock 2023. DJ Cuppy and Ryan Taylor Just like her sister, Temi, billionaire daughter, DJ Cuppy finally got off the market as she got engaged to her British lover, Ryan Taylor.  Cuppy’s engagement came as a shock to many of her fans, who hailed her for keeping her private life off social media. Lasisi Elenu and Rain Comedian Lasisi Elenu in the outgoing year proposed to the love of his life, Rain Olanma Oluwanifemi. He shared the news on his verified Instagram page on July 22, 2022. Frodd and Chioma Former Big Brother Naija housemate, Chukwuemeka Okoye, aka Frodd, a few days ago, got his longtime girlfriend, Chioma engaged. On Thursday evening, the exciting news was shared on social media by Nollywood actress, Mimi Orjiekwe. Mimi posted a romantic video of Frodd popping the question to his lover, Chioma, during a party. Blossom Chukwujekwu and Winifred Akhuemokhan Nollywood actor, Blossom Chukwujekwu and Winifred Akhuemokhan held their white wedding at Christ Embassy Church in June. The wedding was officiated by the church’s founder, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome. This was after their traditional wedding in Edo State on May 20, three years after the actor’s marriage to Maureen Ezissi ended. Ini Dima-Okojie and Abasi Ene-Obong Nollywood actress, Ini Dima-Okojie’s church wedding to Abasi Ene-Obong, founder and CEO of 54 Gene, happened in June. The duo had tied the knot in a rich, traditional way that blended their Edo and Efik cultures so beautifully.