Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to direct the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, to investigate the reported attack on the Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi, after a rally in Katsina State, and other cases of election-related intimidation, harassment and violence across the country. SERAP also urged him to direct Baba and the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, to name and shame any politicians and other perpetrators of election-related intimidation, harassment, and violence, and to ensure they are promptly brought to justice. In a letter, dated January 28, 2023 and signed by SERAP Deputy Director, Kolawole Oluwadare, the organisation said: “Escalating cases of election-related intimidation, harassment, and violence are fundamentally inconsistent with the principle of free and fair elections. It also urged the president  to also “caution state governors to end reported suppression of campaigns by opposition parties within their states, and to ensure the security and safety of opposition candidates, members and supporters.” Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “In a political climate of suppression of opposition parties’ campaigns and other election-related intimidation, harassment and violence, the electorate will not feel free to exercise their right to vote.  “SERAP is concerned about the growing impunity for election-related intimidation, harassment and violence.” Obi was reportedly attacked after a rally in Katsina with stones while on his way to the airport. The attack is coming on the heels of reported 339 incidents of election-related intimidation, harassment and violence across the country in 2022. Many state governors are reportedly suppressing campaigns by opposition parties within their states.   “The growing suppression of campaigns by state governors is an indicator of a slide into authoritarianism.  “Investigating and prosecuting these cases, and bringing perpetrators to justice would stop further violence, facilitate free and fair elections, and encourage Nigerians to freely exercise their right to vote. Investigating and prosecuting these cases would also promote and ensure the rule of law and democratic tradition in the country,” SERAP said.