Your action in life matters. It determines whether you will win or lose, it makes you take charge in life. It makes you excel in the endeavours of life. Success, promotion, long life, riches and every good thing in life are found in wisdom. Prov. 8.22 Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. 1. DEVELOPE A STRONG PRAYER LIFE. “And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, he went out, and departed into a solitary place, and there prayed” – MARK 1:35.  If success is your dream, you must develop and maintain a strong prayer life. Nobody can pray for you like yourself. Every time you desire help, cry to God in prayers, for there is no closed case with God. God specializes in turning mourning to dancing, He can reverse every situation that seems irreversible. Wisdom is located in the place of prayer and your stand with God at the place of prayer affects your life. The quality of your prayer determines your life and destiny. Your prayer life determines your success.  The bankruptcy of prayer is the reason for failure, stagnation and struggle. I declare and decree over your life that whatever is dead in your life, whatever is about to die in your life, be restored now in the Name of the Lord Jesus. Amen Do not take your prayer life for granted because if you refuse to stay with God, you will remain on the floor. Kingdom authority belongs to the prayerful. If your voice is known to God at the place of prayer, that voice must be heard on earth. If God does not know your voice in the secret, He may not respond to your call in the open. To stay with God is to stay on top. You are as effective as your prayer life. You are as effective as your fellowship with God. You are as effective as your communion with the Holy Spirit. Prayer is regarded as the most critical engagement of the Christian in his relationship with God. We don’t have a future, destiny, and ministry without the life of prayer. The depth of your inner life determines the height of your outer life. Praying without ceasing is the secret of winning without ceasing. The value a man puts on prayer portrays many things in his individual life. You must travail in the closet in order to prevail in public. The value a man puts on prayer is a major determinant of several events of his life. When you see a man who is succeeding outwardly without a strong prayer base, he will soon fade away like a flower.  The duration and intensity of your prayer life determines your impact in this generation.  Psalm 55:17 Set your life on fire Set your destiny on fire Set your house on fire Set your future on fire Set your vision on fire At the place of prayer, a man is enabled to see things the way God sees them. You are enabled to see the picture of the future. The higher you go in prayer, the further you can see. Prayer helps you see things and  situations the way God sees them.  2. COVET THE PRESENCE OF GOD. “Now therefore, I pray thee, if I have found grace in thy sight, shew me now thy way, that I may know thee, that I may find grace in thy sight: and consider that this nation [is] thy people. And he said, My presence shall go [with thee], and I will give thee rest. And he said unto him, If thy presence go not [with me], carry us not up hence”- Exd. 33:13-15. The priority of God’s presence has been lost today in the life of most believers. Every believer is sent by God to change human lives and address human needs. The whole world is waiting for our manifestation not our explanation. Christian life is a call to power and manifestation, you must maintain the presence of God in your life if you desire success/victory in your ministry, business, job and career. You must give priority to your relationship with God. You may lose everything in life but one thing you must never lose, is the presence of God. In His presence, there is liberty In His presence, there is dominion  In His Presence, no demon can touch you In his presence, there is unusual success  The presence of God is the secret of the blessings of God and His presence is the key to manifestation in any area of your life. 3. SEEK DIVINE DIRECTION  “And thine ears shall hear a word behind thee, saying, This [is] the way, walk ye in it, when ye turn to the right hand, and when ye turn to the left”- Isaiah: 30: 21.  “For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are the Sons of God. Rom. 8:14” It is our right to be directed by God and as a child of God, direction is mandatory. Ps. 38:8  To be His sheep is to be directed by His word and if we are connected to Him, His voice is guaranteed. Why is direction necessary?  1 King 17:1-7, 17:8-16 Divine direction is the key to Divine Provision. God provides to the people He directs. It is God that leads you into His provision, He directs you to the location of what you are looking for. The absence of direction is the shortage of provision. The absence of direction is the abundance of scarcity as what belongs to you is not everywhere. Divine direction is the secret of divine provision. When you are directed, sweat will be eliminated and effect will be generated. There are those you may not see their sweat, yet, you will not deny their effect. The voice of God is the voice of divine direction and it is the master key to progress. Direction is what terminates struggle and it is more important than speed. Divine direction eliminates confusion and guarantees victory in any issue 4. BE DEDICATED  “But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you” – MATT 6:33.  Dedication is an attitude that must be in place before success can be in view. It means to be sold out to a course. Until you are sold out to God, you cannot stand out in life. To end every reproach, give life a practical approach, many people give life a casual approach, so they end up becoming casualties. Dedication is the secret behind outstanding success. The quality of your dedication determines the magnitude of your impact in life. Your dedication must first be to God not to your work. It is your addiction to God that brings addition to your life and it is your dedication to God that guarantees stability in life. Use your talent, time, resources etc to serve God, then the world will serve you. 1 Sam 2:9, Ecc 9:11, Rom 9:16 5. BE DETERMINED “For a just [man] falleth seven times, and riseth up again: but the wicked shall fall into mischief” – PROV. 24:16.  Many are dedicated but in a little challenge encountered, they give up.  When you are determined, you take charge. Determination makes you overcome setbacks & obstacles. There are no limits in life except the limits we place by ourselves through our minds. Determine to succeed in life. Ps. 34:19 Determine to win in any situation of life. Problem gives you experience and experience gives you confidence; confidence gives you ability to win in life. The sweet taste of orange is gotten when it is squeezed. Challenges enhance the emergence of your potential. Sometimes, God allows you to encounter challenges so that the best (potential) in you can come out which will take you to another level. Don’t give up! 6. BE DILIGENT  “Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do [it] with thy might; for [there is] no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in the grave, whither thou goest” – ECC 9:10.  Diligence is the essence of duty, it is having a sense of responsibility. “Dignity does not flow down from heaven” . It cannot be purchased nor manufactured, It is a reward reserved for those who labour with diligence. Nothing will ever be achieved without diligence. Success only comes with diligence. It is only a diligent person that can utilize opportunities. Winners stay awake to work smartly and intelligently. Take a firm decision never to be idle in life. Winners and successful people are always busy. You cannot reach the top with folded hands. People who are always sleepy will have their blessings slippery in their hands. There is no successful man who sleeps too much, every successful winner does not sleep too much, they either read, think and work. Those who make news invest their time in making news for others to watch.  Work, otherwise nothing will work for you. 7. MAKE SACRIFICE  Where you will be tomorrow is a function of the sacrifice you make today. You must invest in your future otherwise you will arrive at an empty future. Every rising requires a price. Sacrifice is giving up a pleasure to get a treasure. In life, you do not wait for things to change, you effect change to take charge. To win in life, you must make sacrifices based on what you want and where you want to be in life.  Many want to win but are not ready to make sacrifice.  Invest in knowledge so that you can upgrade your mind. Investing in your mind makes you a global figure that cannot be ignored. Those at the top got there through sacrifice, it is the greatest secret of great men. No man can win in life without sacrifice. Pursue wisdom, it’s profitable. DECISION TIME The best gift of life is time. The best gift of time is now. The best use of now is the decision to secure and prepare for eternity. If you have not accepted Jesus Christ as your Savior, please don’t let this moment pass you. You’re just a decision away from a secured eternity. You can pray this prayer to surrender to Jesus: “Lord Jesus, I believe you died for me. I accept you into my life as my Saviour and Lord. Forgive my sins and give me power to live for you the rest of my life on earth”. Amen. Congratulations! If you have prayed this prayer, you are now born again. You can contact us to let us know about your decision or visit us at the address above to learn more on how to grow in your Christian life. God bless you.