By Christopher Oji   One person have been reportedly killed  as members of the Yoruba Nation agitators  and Men of the Nigeria Police clash in Lagos.Witnesses said the group numbering over 500 had converged at Gani Fawehinmi Park, Ojota, with flags of Yoruba Nation and inscriptions  which reads; ‘we need Yoruba Nation, we demand for Oodua Nation. We are no longer part of Nigeria,’ to register their demand for a separate nation.It was gathered that that the Lagos State Police command, comprising of Rapid Responds Squad and regular police officers from Area H command and Ikeja Divisions stormed the venue to dispose the agitators.Trouble started when the fully armed agitators saw the police and opened fire on them and the police engaged them in a gun duel that lasted for about 30 minutes.A witness, John Nwokedike, told our correspondent that, ” It was like an Armageddon, as the police and the Oodua Nation agitators were shooting. We took to our heels. I abandoned my vehicle, and ran for cover. Many people were killed, many, either during the pandemonium or by stray bullets. The Police have taken over the place, so we won’t be able to know how many people that died”.However, Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) ,Mr.  Benjamin Hundeyin, a Superintendent of Police,  confirmed the attack on policemen by Yoruba nation agitators.He said over 200 of the agitators converge at Gani Fawehimi Garden, Ojota and the police went to disperse them , but the agitators opened fire on the police,” there was a shootout. One person who was dressed with charms died . Two vehicles were burnt by the agitators while one was abandoned by the owner. Really they didn’t take permission from us, because they know that there is no way we would have granted the permission. We are on ground as we have dispersed the agitators and taken over the place. Our men are on the ground, including RRS personnel. I will advise the public to go about their normal duties as we have taken over the public spaces”. The spokesperson for the police in Lagos, Benjamin Hundeyin confirmed the death of the unidentified person. He said operatives of the Command had been deployed to the scene. Commuters ran to safety in the heat of the pandemonium which broke out on Monday morning. Witnesses told sunnewsonline.com that some agitators came out to demand Yoruba Nation amongst others and the police came out to curtail them, leading to a clash.