From Joe Effiong, Uyo Akwa Ibom State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Ini Ememobong, yesterday, said the government has approved the extension of retirement age for teachers from 60 to 65 years, effective December 30, 2022. In a statement, yesterday, the commissioner said the government also approved N675 million for the payment of 2019 leave grant to teachers in the state employ. Ememobong also disclosed that the House of Assembly has increased the 2023 budget to N700 billion.  According to him, this was against the N697.005 billion earlier presented to it for consideration by Governor Udom Emmanuel. He said the House reviewed the figure upward by 0.4 per cent or N2.999 billion, claiming it is to accommodate some state-wide interventions on roads. The commissioner said Governor Emmanuel, while assenting to the appropriation bill, thanked the legislature, budget office and other agencies that had played roles towards the timely passage of the 2023 budget and successes recorded by his administration in the various areas of development.   Ememobong said the governor, after the assent, undertook an analysis of the global macro-economic trends and their implications on the micro-economic environment.  He said: “Executive granted approval for the employment of 1,000 junior staff into the state civil service and granted approval for the training of 2,000 youths in maritime safety and surveillance, to be undertaken by the Ministry of Labour and Manpower Planning. “Approval was granted for the award of contract for the construction of 12.8km Ikot Ukpong Inuaenyen-Ikot Eteng Ndon-atan Ikpe road with one 15 meter span bridge in Ikot Abasi Local Government Area.  “Approval was granted for the award of contract for the construction of 6.1km Shelter Afrique/Nnung Ette flood control tunnel in Uyo and Ibesikpo/Asutan local government areas. “Executive granted approval for the award of contract for the construction of 9.0km Ikot Ada idem-Ediene Ikot Obio Imo-Ikot Oku Ikono road in Ibiono Ibom/Uyo local government areas.”