…canvasses votes for all APC candidates in the forthcoming elections By GILBERT EKEZIE The All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for the House of Representatives, Ajeromi-Ifelodun Federal Constituency, Lagos State in the 2023 election, Hon Kalejaiye Adeboye Paul (KAP) has appealed to the good people of the constituency to do everything genuinely possible to ensure that their voter cards are available, so as to vote in the forthcoming elections. He made the appeal recently when the APC Lagos West Senatorial candidate, Dr Idiat Oluranti Adebule held stakeholders meeting with non indigenes, artisans, market people, youths and other groups at Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Government Area. He said securing the voter card would give those who are eighteen years old and above, the opportunity and privilege to choose the candidates who will effect the deserved change in the society. Kalejaiye explained the PVC collection is as important as the registration, so if one registered and refuses to collect it, it becomes a waste of time and resources, as all efforts put in, would be exercise in futility. “If one could take the pains to register, the person should also take the same pain to collect the PVC to vote, which is a Civic responsibility and aservice to the nation. Beyond that, it I still see it as moral responsibility.” He advised the people to go collect their PVCs and not feeling unconcerned of what goes on around them. “When we feel that what goes around politically is not good enough, the solution is to change the narrative by voting in the right person during the election. We should not keep complaining that the society is bad, then during the election, we stand aloof. By so doing, we make the situation worse, and we keep on suffering.” The tested and trusted politician expressed regret that some eligible voters shun voting at the election day, instead decide to play football on the streets. “Days are gone when you see young men play football on the streets while the voting was going on. Others stay indoors and refuses to participate. This time, they should do away with such attitudes. We need them this time around to come out and vote for all APC candidates for a better tomorrow.” He assured that as an experienced politician and philanthropist, a vote for him, will be a vote for the better development and upgrading Ajeromi Ifelodun Federal Constituency needs as a mini- Nigeria.”I have done a lot good things as a core Ajegunle man. I have lived here for many years and know the problems there and how to solve it. So, if I am given the opportunity to serve, I will not disappoint my people.” Kalejaiye also solicited that Ajeromi Ifelodun constituents should vote for all APC candidates in the forthcoming election inorder get the dividends of democracy. “We have our presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the Lagos West Senatorial candidate, Dr Idiat Oluranti Adebule, Hon Lukmon Olumoh and Sabur Akanbi Oluwa for Ajeromi Ifelodun Constituencies 1 & 2 respectively. If we all win the elections, we will team up to serve the people better.”