From Ben Dunno, Warri Please enable JavaScript The All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Delta State, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, has urged community youths across the three senatorial districts not to be left out of the massive movement to liberate the state from the shackles of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) that had mismanaged its wealth and resources, especially in the last seven and half years of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s misrule. Soliciting the support of youths while addressing party faithfuls and supporters who had gathered at JFK ground, Refinery Road, Ughoton, in Uvwie and Okpe LGAs respectively at the weekend during the party’s ward to ward campaigns in Delta Central, Omo-Agege, also Deputy Senate President, noted that APC agenda of a ‘New Delta’ was borne out of a desire to protect the future of youths in the state. He warned the opposition party youths against any planned attacks on members and supporters of APC in Delta state during the 2023 general elections, stating that such attacks will be met with the full vehemence of the law. While stating that the warning had become necessary in view of the recent reports of plans to precipitate violence during the election in order to sabotage the BVAS voting system, Senator Ono Agege, appealed to youths in the state to ensure they are not used by “failed politicians who are afraid of free and fair elections”. Omo-Agege averred that the 2023 general elections are profound, and would redefine the destiny of Nigeria and Delta state and therefore warned that anyone that attempts to disrupt the election will be toying with the future of both the state and country. According to him; “You are our children, we are one family; it does not matter which political party you belong to. Come and join this people’s movement which has become a revolution for the liberation of Delta State from the misgovernance of PDP. I specifically appeal to those youths in PDP, to come and join us and move the state forward.” He said Delta Governor Dr Ifeanyi Okowa hates the Urhobo people so much so that he thoughtlessly attempted to humiliate and retire former Delta Governor, Chief James Ibori, his benefactor, from politics and impose an “ incompetent Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Rt Hon Sheriff Oborevwori, a man whose credentials are an issue of public debate, as a proxy for his third term agenda.” He assured that Governor Okowa will never be Vice President because the APC Presidential Candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, will win the election, and be declared the next president of Nigeria. Because of this, he said, any vote for any other party would be a wasted vote. He called for the election of Chief Ede Dafinone to replace him in the Senate, stating that the candidate is a humble and intelligent man that would do Urhobo proud. He also made case for the election of Hon Henry Baro as a member of the House of Representatives to represent Okpe, Sapele and Uvwie Federal Constituency. “I can vouch for him. When he gets there he’ll get the respect he deserves,” Omo-Agege said. In the statement by Director, Communications and Media Strategy, Delta APC Campaign Council & Member, APC Presidential Campaign Council, Olorogun Ima Niboro, at Jeddo through to Ughoton, women and youths lined the route with brooms and other APC party insignia, chanting support slogans for Senator Omo-Agege. At the rallies, more former movers and shakers of the PDP including, Chief Barr Victor Otomiewo, former Attorney general and Commissioner of Justice of Delta State; Hon Chief Efe Ofobruku, a two-time member of the Delta State House of Assembly; Chief Godstime Ematsemigbe, aka Omimi; Mrs Rose Onomavwe, former House of Assembly candidate of Action People’s Party, APP, and Aston Stephen Atemu, among others, decamped to the APC.