By Chinenye Anuforo           chinenyeanuforo@gmail.com The information and communication technology ( ICT) sector in Nigeria has recorded significant growth and development in recent years. It has contributed immensely to the sustainability of the economy, serving as a key catalyst in driving productivity in all sectors of the, including agriculture, education, manufacturing, and healthcare. While there has been increased digitization and exploitation of digital technologies in almost all sectors, stakeholders have argued that, going forward, there is need for increased focus on leverage of ICT and science, technology and innovation (STI) to create and expand social and economic opportunities. According to Mr. Jide Awe, CEO of Jidaw Systems Limited and renowned ICT guru, greater attention should be on education, health, agriculture and security. Young people and youth-led organizations should be involved in such activities, projects and interventions. He said, “The nation needs to focus on a sustainable human capital strategy for innovation that takes technological developments (especially emerging technologies), global tech trends, global talent developments and demands. People are the nation’s most important asset and are critical in the age of disruption and innovation. To effectively diversify the economy away from oil, achieve its potential and break away from the unsustainable development model of resource extraction, investment in a human capital innovation strategy is crucial. Such a strategy should also be based on expanding the national digital economy and meeting sustainable development needs. Most importantly, Awe explained that, in addition to improving the digital infrastructure situation and the level of broadband penetration and quality, there is a need to foster a culture of innovation in society and governance, starting with the education system: “Innovation is critical; we must identify and address the barriers and facilitators that promote or inhibit innovation. Digital has limited capacity without a culture of curiosity, open-mindedness, and innovative thinking.” He added that digital inclusion still needs to be prioritized to leverage ICT to create social and economic opportunities in a widespread manner and to build a truly sustainable 21st-century nation. “In this regard, the implementation of the Nigerian National Broadband Plan 2020-2025 should be prioritized, especially concerning the rural areas and the traditionally disadvantaged. Furthermore, there is a need for effective and independent monitoring and evaluation of national STI and ICT policies and strategies. It is essential to reveal the impact, achievements and gaps that need to be closed. The National Data Protection Bill should be passed into law as it is essential to fostering innovations and stimulating economic growth. Trust is fundamental for the growth and sustainability of the digital and innovation ecosystem. There must be responsibility in the collection and usage of personal data to build trust; and citizens must be confident that their data is safe while using and exploiting digital systems. Data protection and privacy laws that protect electronic, and personal data and promote innovation are critical for digital transformation and development and help to improve the investment climate, job creation and economic advancement. Data protection in Nigeria must be up to date with the constantly changing digital world and meet global data protection adequacy. The political will is needed to pass the bill. There is a need to address the issues around the current draft National Information Technology Development Agency (Repeal and Re-Enactment) Bill 2021. Agenda setting involving the government (executive and legislature) and stakeholders in the sector to enhance sector development is needed.” Continuing,  he stated that as a new government will emerge in May, the nation needs to review and take stock of ICT impact and set the agenda with stakeholders. The government leadership of the sector will be very critical; vision, leadership quality, knowledge, understanding of the issues and innovation promotion are imperative. It is also important to key into and leverage African initiatives and strategies such as Agenda 2063, the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) and the Science, Technology and Innovation Strategy for Africa(STISA) for STI opportunities that advance sustainable development. On his own part, Chairman, Association of Licensed Telecom Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), Mr. Gbenga Adebayo, said 5G deployment, Fintech innovation and data application would be the major drivers of the economy in 2023. According to him, there will be increased data analytics that will inform major decision making in 2023, driven by increased data application. He said Fintech would get more support from telecom operators in 2023 that would enable them develop more solutions that would further support financial transactions across board. He added that Fintech would ride on 5G technology, when it is fully rolled out in 2023 by licensed 5G operators, to provide bespoke solutions that would drive smart cities initiative and the digital transformation agenda. According to Adebayo, “The full rollout of 5G services across the country in 2023 will further drive development in the telecom sector. We expect that telecom networks will be a lot more stable in 2023, because most sites that were running on radio links are now being commissioned and re-connected to fibre optic backbone infrastructure, which will bring about better resilience and better service quality. Broadband coverage will also further increase in 2023 and provide more connectivity access to people, even though affordability of broadband access may be a challenge to most people in 2023.” Also, most Fintech players are optimistic that Nigeria will experience more Fintech innovation in 2023, despite its funding challenges. The Chief Executive Officer of Interswitch, a major Fintech player, Mr. Mitchell Elegbe, said that lots of innovations would emanate from Fintrech in 2023 that would further drive development. He however said 2023 would likely come with its challenges, since it is election year for Nigeria. “A lot of things are likely to come up this 2023, because it is an election year. Some serious policies from the regulator will definitely play up and lots of Fintechs are still faced with funding challenges. So the Fintechs need to put some measures in place in order to survive and grow,” Elegbe said. As for Elvis Eromosele, a public affairs analyst as the ICT sector continues to grow, there will be greater demand for individuals with digital skills. This trend is likely to drive the development of training programmes and initiatives to help people acquire the necessary skills. Governments at different levels are making tremendous efforts in this space. The National Information Technology Development Agency, NITDA, through its subsidiary, the National Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Robotics, NCAIR, is training one million developers with a focus on Python for machine learning and data science. The Lagos State Government has also commenced the Second Phase of the Eko Digital Programme, which aims to empower one million youths in the state with cybersecurity skills. Numerous other initiatives are ongoing in the private sector.  ICT will remain a significant proportion of the economy in the foreseeable future. “Human capacity development and infrastructure deployment will, however, dominate the ICT space in 2023”, he said. Contributing his own part, the Chairman, Mobile Software Nigeria, Chris Uwaje, said in 2022, Nigeria performed far below the expectations of global development metrics based on the huge knowledge resources at her disposal – both at home and in the Diaspora. He said the main reason is due to the neglect and lack of understanding for constructively aggregating and utilising Nigeria’s digital core-competence as strategic response to global competitiveness. Uwaje said the major missteps are misunderstanding and misinterpretation of the distinguished difference between digital economy and digital transformation. He said digital transformation is about building digital citizenship at all levels because jobs that existed 60 years ago are no more available today, and tomorrow’s jobs in the next 50 years require new skills to create digital wealth. Uwaje called for digital brain production strategy, which he said would help achieve and deliver the digital transformation goals adding that the central pillar to achieve the above goal in 2023 is recognising and adopting National Software Core-Competence Strategic Masterplan as the transformational agenda.