Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu, at the Michael Okpara Square, Enugu, yesterday, participated in the activities marking the Armed Forces Remembrance Day (AFRD), assuring wives of fallen heroes in the state that his administration shares their pains. Governor Ugwuanyi, on arrival, observed and inspected the parade mounted by the military, laid the Remembrance Wreath at the tomb of the Unknown Soldier and released the pigeons symbolising peace in honour of the fallen heroes. Immediately after the activities marking the AFRD, the governor identified with wives of fallen heroes and assured them of the continued prayers and support of the state government towards the wellbeing of their families, amid tears of joy. The governor, therefore, announced the donation of cash and food items to each of the 210 wives of the fallen heroes in Enugu State, describing the event as a solemn moment for the state and the country. He also identified with officers of the military and commended them for the sacrifices they make for the peace and stability of the state, stressing that “the peace we have here in Enugu would have been difficult without you people; we are grateful.” In the same vein, Cross River State Governor, Ben Ayade, yesterday, in Calabar attended the 2023AFRD celebration at the Millennium Park Cenotaph. The governor called on governments, at all levels, to reflect on the sacrifices former servicemen have made for the country and said: “Today’s AFRD brings to mind the pains, agony and melancholy of our fallen heroes. “As we gather to honour them, may it also be a great opportunity for us to sit back and reflect on the pains of those who are alive. Some of these soldiers who fought so hard for the country are still alive, and retired but have challenges of livelihood. “Therefore, an opportunity like this beckons on governments, at all levels, to reflect on the sacrifices these our sons and daughters have made for our country.” The governor paid glowing tribute to the fallen heroes, saying the oneness of Nigeria today would not have been possible but for the great heroes. “As we genuflect and bow in their honour, may we also reflect on those who worked with us and those who served with us as the primary purpose of government is the people.”