By Brown Chimezie The Convener/Facilitator of Grow Orlu Project, a body of all Orlu professionals, technocrats and leaders of thought, Prince Nixon Okwara has given reasons why the body is mobilizing to ensure that Senator Osita Izunaso , the All Progressives Congress(APC), senatorial candidate for Orlu senatorial zone is elected into the senate in the forthcoming election. In this interview, Prince Okwara who is the son of the late traditional ruler of old Ideato local government area, Eze Cyril Okwarauba said the reason why they endorsed Senator Izunaso and are assiduously working for his victory is because they want to partner with him for the development and growth of Orlu zone. According to him, though Orlu has dominated power with regard to governorship since the return of democracy in 1999, it has in no way translated to development. He also spoke on other issues. What is the purpose of forming Grow Orlu Project? Well, Grow Orlu Project was formed for the development of Orlu. It is a fact that Orlu zone has dominated power in Imo State since the return of democracy in 1999 but the truth it that it has not really translated to development. Since 1999, apart from the one term of Ikedi Ohakim who came from Okigwe zone, the other governors up till now have come from Orlu zone but if you go to Orlu, there are no good roads, no electricity, no standard schools, no hospitals and other infrastructure. It was when Hope Uzodinma came on board that we began to witness massive construction of quality roads in Orlu zone, irrespective of the security challenges that his government inherited. Those who have been following my interviews in the media will attest to the fact that I had a long drawn battle with Rochas Okorocha when he was the governor because under his watch, most of the towns in Orlu were cut from the rest of Imo State by erosion while he was collecting ecological funds. There was no functional hospitals in most of the towns in Orlu and we lived in darkness most of the years he was in office because of no transmitter and other electricity equipment. So the security challenges that are now plaguing Orlu zone also helped to form the basis for the formation of Grow Orlu Project because it has become imperative  that somebody with a growth mindset in the Senate is required to partner with the state governor in the area of infrastructure and economic growth. Of all the senatorial candidates in Orlu, why do you people settle for Izunaso? Well, we carefully scrutinize all the candidates and found out that he is the most qualified for our vision for Orlu people. Our vision is called the rural growth deal, which is an innovative multi-sector partnership that provide a catalyst for change to deliver sustainable and inclusive economic growth in the rural areas of Orlu zone. What we did was to assemble technocrats, resource personnel and professionals who have discovered and identified the rich human and material resources in the 12 local government areas of Orlu zone. So, we formed some effective policies on Igbo apprenticeship model which we intend to sponsor as a bill in the Senate and when passed would see to the empowerment of the youths and talents via the apprenticeship model. But what is the current senator representing Orlu doing in this regard? What I can tell you is that in the last few years, we have seen the governor working alone as the presence of the senator who is currently representing Orlu appears to be non-existent. The governor needs support and partnership from the Senate to secure Orlu in particular and Imo State in general and charity as they said should begin from home; that is his own senator. The Grow Orlu project has a document on the pathway to security and economic growth of Orlu zone. The document is titled, “Our Pact With Osita Izunaso”. This document will see our sons and daughters all over the world producing mentors through this apprenticeship system.