From Magnus Eze, Enugu All Progressives Congress (APC) House of Representatives candidate for Ohaozara/Onicha/ Ivo (OHANIVO) Federal Constituency of Ebonyi State in the February 25 polls, Felix Igboke, has vowed that he would not disappoint his people if voted into office. Igboke, who promised the people effective representation blamed truancy and inability to relate with constituents as the bane of some previous occupants of the seat. Addressing a mammoth crowd at the flag-off of his campaign at Isu, headquarters of Onicha Local Government, the former council chairman noted that several people who seek elective positions see them as business ventures where they must recoup their investments and make profits. He said: “As I go to Abuja, I will not disappoint you; my dear constituents, I won’t say that I will tar roads and build bridges but I assure you of effective representation. We will pay priority to getting our people federal opportunities. We will look out for agricultural grants for our farmers; that’s the kind of empowerment that will affect large number of our people.” Like Igboke, other speakers at the event including former Deputy Governor of Ebonyi State, Prof. Chigozie Ogbu, Chairman of Onicha LGA, Chief Chidebere Uzor (Obosi) and former Chairman, Ivo LGA, Chief Aroh Nweke, urged party members to work assiduously for the victory of the APC at all levels. Ogbu noted that the APC in the state recognised equity, justice and fairness in the choice of its candidates for the various elective positions across the state. “Onicha has always produced the highest votes, but I urge all of our people not to be violent during the forthcoming elections. Onicha people are not known as violent people, so, let’s go out and vote peacefully and return to our homes. “Remember that any violence would lead to cancellation of votes in that affected polling unit and the electoral law is clearly against violence,” he stated. Chairman of the party’s campaign council in Ohaozara LGA, Chief Chaka Nweze, warned that there would not be room for rigging during the forthcoming polls, so, the party must work for the votes. Nweze said: “Votes are going to count, so, if the votes will count, our strategy now should be how we are going to harvest the votes. What it means is that we have to reach out to the people who have the votes, the electorate.”