By Rita Okoye Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Adeniyi Maruf aka Mr. Murph is a talented singer, songwriter and producer from Jos, Plateau State. He developed his diverse taste in music through a combination of cultural and social influences. His upbringing coupled with his vast musical collection allowed him to absorb an eclectic mix of musical styles and techniques. Mr. Murph is influenced musically by the likes of King Sunny Ade, Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, Ebenezer Obey and Shina Peters, and has worked with notable artistes including Jesse Jagz. In this interview, the talented artiste opened up on his musical odyssey amongst other issues. Please enjoy it. Tell us about your musical journey? My musical journey started long time ago. From childhood, I dare to say. I officially started my music journey in 1999. I made a few songs but never put them out for public listening. Only a few family members and friends knew about my talent. I took a long break from music to focus on other things that were more financially assuring and made me return in 2017 officially. I returned this time with a hit record titled, Godiya, an inspirational song. At what point did you realize you could sing? I have always played around with music, sounds and words. Just like everyone needs someone to point out certain things because we can’t always see ourselves, one of my friends, Mista Nas, noted how amazing my vocals were in 1999, and suggested I went into music professionally. How would you describe your style of music? I would describe my style of music as a fusion between Afro and fuji, bringing a unique and refreshing vibes to my listeners and fans. What does music mean to you? Music means a lot of things to me. It’s a way of expression, a means of communication, an outlet of the soul that is spiritually inclined. Simply, I will describe music as life. What would you regard as the highlight of your career? The highlight of my career was when I dropped my first album, Ibere under my Murphious Records label. Ibere was coincidentally dropped around the same time Jesse Jagz dropped his Garba EP, on which I featured on the track, ‘R’. Tell us about your new album? Just like my previous albums, this new album is going to contain songs filled with sounds from the depth of the hearts. The journey has been filled with love and support, so my new album is an expression of gratitude and love, especially from my root, J-city. Where is the weirdest place you have gotten inspiration for a song? The weirdest place I have gotten inspiration for music definitely has to be the market. That was where I got the inspiration for ‘Godiya’ meaning ‘gratitude’. Being there and seeing all the things happening in real time definitely inspired me. What influences your kind of songs? The biggest influence on my music is reality. It has always been and will always be. What is the most controversial thing you have heard about yourself that is not true? The most controversial thing I’ve heard about myself would be me being described as proud and clueless. You are based in Jos, how would you compare the music industry over there to that of Lagos? The music industry in Jos and Plateau State generally is growing, but at the same time thriving with little structural changes and improvements, it could get better. Which Nigerian artiste would you love to collaborate with and why? I would definitely love to collaborate with Tuface. I believe we share a few things in common; content wise and being vocally dynamic. What’s your advice to people who think they need controversies to become popular? They should do whatever works for them, but should be mindful of potential consequences. Music is work. Music is life. Music is technical. Music should be seen as oxygen.