Endorsements for the return of the senator representing Abia North, Orji Uzor Kalu, to the National Assembly soared at the weekend as the Senate Chief Whip transversed through additional wards in Isuikwuato Local Government Area while engaging constituents on the need to cast their ballots for his re-election. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. While interfacing with the people, Kalu took stock of various infrastructure projects executed in their communities and gave assurances to construct additional routes. The lawmaker, who is  candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) got the backing of his constituents while making the final lap of his campaign tour of 21 Wards of Isuikwuato council after visiting Ndundu Ward 18; Agbama Isunabo Ward 20; Ikeagha 1 Ward 8; Ikeagha 2 Ward 9; Ugwuele/Mbaugwu Ward 19; Achara Ward 7 and ABSU/Umuanyi Ward 10. The lawmaker was commended for quality projects like rural roads, installation of solar streetlights, sinking of boreholes, renovation of schools and health centres, youths and women empowerment, scholarships to Abia North students to study medicine and surgery in South America, agricultural grants and many more. After embracing Kalu and his team, people of Ikeagha Ward 2 mentioned the construction of their community road which they described as the realisation of the promise he made to them in 2019. They afterwards conferred their endorsement on Kalu’s re-election, promising to cast their votes in his favour during the February 25 polls. President General of Nvurunvu, Francis Ikwuaja, who announced the community’s resolution, said they were optimistic that Kalu’s return to the Senate would translate to the facilitation of additional projects in their localities. Similarly, at Agbama Isunabo Ward 20, another round of vote of confidence was passed by the community to adopt Kalu as their sole candidate for the 2023 senatorial election.  While announcing their resolve to align with Kalu and his return ambition, the community’s Prime Minister,  Sunday Nnadi, disclosed that Kalu’s maiden senatorial outing has been fruitful and rewarding to their community.  Nnadi urged the lawmaker to pay more attention to their immediate ward when he gets re-elected. It was no different at Achara Ward 7 where the community declared solidarity for Kalu’s re-election.  APC Ward Woman Leader, Nwankwo Florence, said asides the road, Kalu had also empowered the women, stating that they would willingly cast their votes in his favour. At Ndundu Ward 8, the Senate chief whip received the blessing of the constituents to run for another term at the Senate. Conferring the community’s support, National Youth President of Uturu, Chukwuemeka Chukwunenye, told Kalu that residents trust his capacity to continue his good works when he goes back to the Senate. The former Abia governor sought the understanding of those whose rural access roads were not constructed , explaining that projects can’t be built at the same time but rather in phases.  He said his re-election will afford him the opportunity to execute more projects to those areas that had none. “My coming here is not to campaign but to show you my report card because you all know me and I am confident of your votes,” he said.