Nollywood stars and other celebrities under the aegis of Connecting Grassroots Initiative (CGI),  has begun to mobilise grassroots support for presidential candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) president candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and the re-election of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu in Lagos State. CGI, which is a volunteers group that comprises of notable Nollywood stars and other celebrities who believe in Tinubu/Shettima presidency and re-election of  Sanwo-Olu /Obafemi Hamzat for second term, was instituted by Musiliu Akinsanya, also known as MC Oluomo while, Ebun Oloyede (Olaiya Igwe), is the director general of the group  The group has been moving from one local government to another to canvass support for the duo at the grassroots and to urge the residents to pick up their permanent voters’ card (PVCs). Head of CGI media team, Damola Olatunji, disclosed the campaign train has reached Oshodi, Mushin, Ikeja local government areas and in Apapa council, yesterday. He said their choice of candidates was well-thought out before proceeding to boldly announcing them and added that it was much to the favour of Nigerians “We are a group of entertainers that are concerned and passionate about Nigeria and its economical situation. We sat down and said to ourselves, let’s see what we can do concerning the coming elections so that Nigerians will not get it wrong. “We scrutinised all the candidates and we picked the ones we feel and believe are the most competent with better plans for the country. That is why we support  Tinubu and Kashim Shettima, Sanwo-Olu/Hamzat re-election as pertaining to the forthcoming election,” Olatunji said. Bimbo Akintola, a veteran actress, said: “One of the things I have always appreciated Asiwaju from time till now is the fact that he empowers the youths and I believe the youths are the future of the country. “Asiwaju has the knack of bringing intellectuals, key people who are skilled enough to help us refine Nigeria. That is one of the major reasons I am voting and supporting Tinubu.”