By Kenneth Udeh The electorate of Dunukofia and Awka North Local Government areas of Anambra Central have declared their willingness to back the Senator representing the zone at the National Assembly, Senator Uche Ekwunife. The communities made their intentions known on Friday while passing their resolution for the endorsement of Ekwunife’s return to the Senate. At separate engagements, stakeholders of the communities who spoke on behalf of their constituents, noted that they couldn’t afford to vote for any other candidate below the standard of the current lawmaker. Senator Ekwunife, candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), has intensified her campaign tour, and has so far reached the following communities — Dunukofia: Nawgu, I & II , Ukwulu I & II, Umudioka I & II, Ukpo I, II & III, Ifitedunu I, II & Akwa, Umunnachu I & II ; Awka North: Awba-Ofemili, Ugbene, Ebenebe I, II & III, Amansea & Mgbakwu. Ekwunife, who arrived at the Oye Ukpo rally at Ukpo in Dunukofia LGA,  was welcomed by the President General of the community, Chief Emeka Nwakor. Speaking on behalf of the jubilant gathering, Emeka lauded Ekwunife’s achievements, stating that she had redefined qualitative representation in the zone. “We have to rally behind Senator Uche Ekwunife, because we can’t go below her standard. She is a performing senator, who has done well and deserves reward for her diligence. We can all testify that all the projects that she has listed are duly and appropriately done and confirmed,” Nwakor said. The campaign in Awka North began with a visit to the palace of the traditional ruler, HRH Igwe Alex Ezekwesili Mmaduagwuna, at Awba Ofemili Ward, where Ekwunife and her team were very well received. At Ebenebe, Ekwunife also received the backing of the community as announced by its traditional ruler, HRH Igwe Christopher Emeka Nnaegbuna, and his cabinet members. In his remarks, the royal father pointed to Ekwunife’s infrastructural Impact with the construction of a road in Umuogbuefi village and construction of a health center in Ebenebe village, and assured the lawmaker that the community would support her return to the senate. In separate responses, Ekwunife thanked the traditional rulers and president generals for their kind words. The federal lawmaker noted that she had done well for the communities and was incomparable. She urged them to compare her performance with those of her opponents, assuring that her return to the senate would guarantee more developments.