By Chinelo Obogo Former governor of Anambra State, Chukwuemeka Ezeife, has said Mr. Peter Obi, is God’s gift to Nigeria and would restore the country’s lost glory.     The former governor thanked the leader of Afenifere, Pa Ayo Adenbanjo, elder statesman, Edwin Clark and former President Olusegun Obasanjo for endorsing Obi, saying that their support shows they stand for equity and justice.   Speaking at Obi’s Enugu rally held at the Okpara Square, Ezeife said the former Anambra governor is running because he is the best suited and most qualified for the job and that his support base and acceptance across every zone makes him a candidate for the unification of Nigeria. “The journey to build a new Nigeria is on and everyone is called on board. We can see the hands of God in this project, we only pray that those hands of God takes the project to a successful conclusion, and there should be no interim Government. “God has given us Peter Obi at this point and he is a gift to end the woes of our country, to enthrone equity, justice, fairness and explosive economic development in the Nation; Nigeria. God has moulded him in a special way to solve Nigerian leadership challenges. He is young, energetic, vibrant and with superior intellect. Peter is competent, he has the capacity, capability and character. He possesses the required skill set, knowledge and qualification to navigate Nigeria from her current sociopolitical, economic and security challenges. He is also from the East, the people long denied to lead this nation, even though they are about the most populous Nigerian group who have voted for one Nigeria with their feet and who by their tradition treats anywhere they live as home…  Obi is running to become the President of Nigeria because he is the best suited and most qualified for the job. His support base and acceptance across every zone and every tribe makes him a candidate for the unification and pacification of Nigeria.  Obi will restore the many years the locusts have eaten, heal the land, and build a new Nigeria. He will rebuild Nigeria to its original manifest destiny of becoming superior among nations, for when Nigeria rises,” Ezeife said. He said: “I thank the former President Olusegun Obasanjo for his commitment to this project. He in his recent open endorsement of Obi for President, marks him as a detribalised, visionary, committed leader who is determined to correct the mistakes of the past, to heal the wound and therefore rebuild a new nation.I must thank the elder statesman and the leader of the Afenifere, Pa Ayo Adebanjo for his unwavering and consistent support for Obi, which according to him is based on enthronement of justice, equity and fairness in the Nigerian leadership project. I am appreciative of the nonagrian elder statesman and Pan Niger Delta leader, Chief Edwin Clark, for being a pillar of support for this project. I also thank the President of Middlebelt Forum, Dr. Bitrus Pogu who has consistently been mobilising the entire Middlebelt region on the project. To all the leaders of the Southern and Middlebelt Leaders Forum, I said thank you. We must continue to thank every Nigerian who is supporting this project of taking back our country and urge us to step up the support till victory is secured.”