From Gyang Bere, Jos Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in Plateau State, Barr. Caleb Mutfwang, has assured stakeholders that the dream of his administration if voted into power is to build a new Plateau.  He noted that he will build a Plateau where all ethnic nationalities will feel safe and secured. Mutfwang disclosed this while addressing stakeholders of the PDP at a town hall meeting as part of campaigns and build up towards the forthcoming elections. Mutfwang also cleared the confusion bandied by those he described as “bad dreamers” that the PDP has legal entanglements bordering on the emergence of its candidates for the forthcoming elections, saying the PDP in Plateau State is the safest platform as far as the forthcoming elections are concerned.  He told the people that their votes for the PDP will translate as insured mandate. Mutfwang reminded the people that their pattern of voting in the elections should begin from the top with a vote for Atiku Abubakar as President, Mutfwang as Governor, all the way to members of the State House of Assembly. Participants at the interactive engagement harped on the time honoured values of peace, security, state police, local government autonomy, women inclusiveness, herders-farmers mutuality, banking, traders, and commerce, education, payment of teachers and civil servants salaries, and youth development programs. The State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Chris Hassan, regretted that Plateau State presently does not have a Governor who can champion the cause of the people and project their interests. Accordingly, he said the PDP has presented a viable and worthy alternative in Barrister Caleb Mutfwang who has the ability to return Plateau State to its lost glory. Hassan told the Party stakeholders in Ryom that the PDP conducted and concluded its primaries without rancour and litigations, and that more than any other Party in the State, the PDP is most prepared for the forthcoming elections. Hassan called on all Plateau people to return home and vote the PDP back into power because it is the only Party whose philosophy of operation captures and reflects the socioeconomic and political aspirations of the Plateau people. Chairman of the Atiku/Mutfwang Campaign Council, Letep Dabang, thanked the PDP for giving him the opportunity to correct a fundamental mistake he made earlier by joining the APC at inception in 2015, saying he has realized his error and returned home. He called on all to join him in the refurnished and refocused PDP and urged the electorates in Ryom and the entire State to “show our candidates compassion and favour”. Earlier at the palaces of the Atar Aten of Ganawuri, Yakubu Chaimang and the Gwom Rei of Ryom, Samuel Jwak, the Gubernatorial candidate, Barrister Caleb Mutfwang, commended the Royal Fathers and the entire traditional council, for their efforts in sustaining the peace in their domain. The Royal Fathers respectively prayed for the candidate and his entourage, and prayed God to see him to success in the forthcoming general elections. The town hall meeting cum consultation with stakeholders which featured a rigorous question-and-answer session, was well attended as the Ryom Development Association Town Hall was filled to capacity with elders, women, and youths who sand and cheered in approval of the PDP Gubernatorial candidate.