From Molly Kilete, Abuja  The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) has warned those plotting to scuttle the electoral process to steer clear or have themselves to blame.  This is as it has again assured Nigerians of a peaceful, credible and crisis free polls on February 25 and March 11.  It vowed that the armed forces working in collaboration with the various security forces would deal decisively with any act inimical to the successful conduct of the general elections. Director, Defence Media Organization (DMO), Major Gen. Musa Danmadami, stated this at a media briefing on the update of military operations conducted across the country in Abuja. Gen. Danmadami, while responding to journalists’ questions on the security of citizens during, before and after the elections given the series of attacks in some parts of the country, assured that the military would remain apolitical but would deal ruthlessly with any act that would be inimical to the smooth conduct of the elections across the country. While noting that military operations across the country has continued to yield positive results with the rate of successes recorded so far, he said there was no cause for fear over the peaceful conduct of the general elections in any part of the country.   “The Armed Forces of Nigeria  is on stand by for the general elections. There is no cause for concern. The CDS has stated this on several occasions; we will remain apolitical but will deal divisively with any unwanted behaviour, the rules of engagement are there, the code of conducts are being distributed to the troops.  “The Nigeria Police Force is the lead agency in the conduct of elections but the military and other sister security agencies will play supportive roles, and we are ready for the supportive roles. So, there is no cause for concern as we speak, we are conducting various operations in the perceived volatile South East to restore normalcy in the area as we did in the past after which peaceful elections were held. The coming Elections will also hold in the area and in all the parts of the country.”