By Lukman Olabiyi Organised Labour in Lagos State, yesterday, dumped Labour Party (LP) and all its candidates for the forthcoming general elections by declaring and mobilising support for All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidates. The workers’ union, under the umbrella of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC), Lagos State chapters at a rally, tagged: ‘Labour 4 Sanwo-Ou’  at the Police College, Ikeja declared their support for Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu re-election’s bid,  as well as other candidates of APC, contesting for elective posts. Leader of NLC in the state, Agnes Funmilayo Sessi, who led her members to the rally, said yesterday was the first time labour unions in the state would come out to endorse the candidates of any political party. She said the union had been sitting on the fence but now wants to take its faith in it hands by supporting Governor Sanwo-Olu’s second term re-election’s bid and other APC candidates, including, its presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “Today’s not the day of making speeches, because before we came here, we all agreed. We had our congress and at the congress, we have done something very important. We only want to come and display it publicly. What we have done right in our house, let us show it to the world. This is the first time Labour in Lagos State will come out openly to support and endorse any candidate of any party. We have never done it before. but we are doing this because of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. “Some people might be surprised why we come out, we are not politicians. We have only been sitting on the fence but this time around, we want to be part of it so that we can be part of the government. We have come out with our full chests because this government has done good things for us. “We are also endorsing Tinubu for president. We will vote for him”, she said. In the same vein, TUC Chairman, Gbenga Ekundayo, said: “There is no need beating about the bush. You have heard it well. Each time we meet Mr. Governor, he responds to us. Democracy is about inclusion.  “We have tested Mr. Governor and we have found him to have listening ears and a large heart to accommodate us,.” In his response, the governor pledged not to take for granted any support given for his re-election, as he would do much more than he has done in his first term, making lives of electorate and their children better. “I want to thank all of you for this great endorsement. We will not take it for granted. What this tells us is that we must do a lot more. That’s when your lives and that of your children will be better. We will not disappoint you.  “I want to recognise all the workers, including those in the private sector. This is Lagos, the centre of excellence. I want to say you have chosen well. You have come out in large number and I want to assure you we are coming back bigger, stronger and better for the people of Lagos State. We will ensure the value of your lives is not compromised.   “I want to thank all of you for your endorsement. We will not take it for granted. What this tells us is that we must do a lot more.