By Kenneth Udeh Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. With a long line of  infrastructure projects and 25 bills to his credit, Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu on Thursday commenced the campaign tour of his Abia-North Senatorial District to achieve his re-election bid back to the Senate.  Kalu, who represents the zone at the 9th Senate, has, since his election in 2019, executed over 100 infrastructural development projects in his community. They include roads, school reconstruction, water boreholes, solar lighting and so on which in turn earned him numerous awards from credible organisations.  Arriving at Isuikwuato where the tour kicked off from, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) unveiled his next agenda which he said would be more focused on revving the agricultural sector of his Senatorial zone in addition to other infrastructural projects, having executed numerous basic amenity projects within rural areas in his first term.  Ogudu-Asaa Ward 5 Amaibowasthefirstport of call for Senator Kalu where he was joyfully received at Amaigbo school field, the campaign venue, amidst cheers from supporters and party the faithful.  Along with his team, Kalu took his message of consolidation to; Imenyi  Ward 1; Imenyi Wards 2 and 14; Ovim Ward 15; Ezere Ward 2 ; Acha/ Amachara Ward 16 and Oguduasaa Ward 5 where me engaged hundreds of elated constituents. Welcoming the former Abia State Governor, APC chairman in Isik-wuato Local Government Area, Hon. Royal Oker-eke assured Senator Kalu of the people’s support and vowed to deliver the local government for the party.  According to him, Kalu’s outstanding performance would give the party maximum victory at the polls. He pointed out that Kalu’s opponents have nothing to campaign with, describing them as inconsequential.  “Your Excellency, Isui-kwuato Local Government Area is proud of your outstanding performance. You’ve redefined  representation through the construction of rural roads, distribution of education materials, installation of solar street lights, renovation of schools and scholarships to our children. We are going to give  you all our votes,” he assured. At Imenyi Ward 2, Chairman Reality Organisation, Prince I.K. Ukennaya categorically appreciated the Chief Whip for salvaging the community from erosion at Ahaba-Ehuma which had previously destroyed many house. He assured Kalu of bulk votes from the community in the forthcoming elections.  Kalu, in his speech, urged the people to vote for all candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the February 25 election, pledging to expedite more projects to the area.  “I’m not the Senator that goes about giving stomach infrastructure or money to induce voters. The infrastructure is the schools which we’re building and reconstruct- ing, the learning materials, water boreholes, roads and skill empowerment items that can stand the test of time. “Rather than call for large rallies for my campaign, I have decided to visit every ward to have a one on one conversation with you all to know your other needs. By the time I return to the Senate with your votes, my focus will be on improving our agri- culture sector and doing more access roads to the one we have done.”  Kalu was accompanied by party chieftains and community leaders including the Commissioner, Federal Complaints Commission, Dr. Maduka Ukaegbu; former Chairman of Isuikwuato Local Government Area, Chief Chris Ajah and Hon. Ralph Ukoro; APC Chair- man Isikwuato Local Government Area, Hon. Paul Uche, among others.  Some of the community stakeholders who received Kalu were; Chairman, Reality Organisation, Prince I.K. Ukennaya; President General Ahaba Imenyi, Uchechukwu Kanu; Local Government Secretary, OUK Movement, Acha Ward, Hon. Ifeanyichukwu; OUK Movement Chairman, Ezere Ward 2 Chibuiai Aguyi and other prominent stakeholders.