From David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi Archbishop Emeritus and Dean, Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, Maxwell Anikwenwa has added his voice to call on qualified voters to collect their Permanent Voters Cards ready for the forthcoming general elections. Archbishop Anikwenwa made the call on Saturday during the dedication of Our Saviour’s Church, Awka, Anambra State by the Archbishop, Ecclesiastical Province of the Niger, Most Rev. Alexander Ibezim. He noted that the duty of every Nigerian remained casting his or her vote during elections, regardless of religious affiliations. He warned those who he said avoided such responsibility not to complain if the outcome was not favourable to them. “Every Nigerian, irrespective of religious beliefs, should register and collect their PVCs in order to carry out their civic responsibility. “It’s an important duty of every Nigerian citizen to vote during elections. Whoever that doesn’t contribute in this all important responsibility should not complain. “Whether the outcome favours you or not, you’ve done your bit. You don’t need to worry. But if you don’t vote, you don’t need to complain; it’s as simple as that, ” he said. Earlier in his sermon titled, “Never give up”, drawn from Matt 15:21, Archbishop Ibezim urged the congregation not to allow life challenges to hinder them from worshipping and rendering services to God. The Archbishop also commended the parishioners for their contributions towards the growth and expansion of the church, urging them not to relent, especially towards the proposed vicarage. “Worshipping God brings miracles. Don’t allow your life challenges stop you from worshipping Jesus; and don’t complain whenever you’re asked to do something in the church because it’s a privilege to work for God,” he added. On his part, Chairman, dedication committee, Chief Chukwuemeka Orjiakor appreciated God for being part of the epoch-making event. He urged the congregation to join hands to ensure the vicarage was completed on time. One of the dignatories at the event, Samuel Nwofor, was full of gratitude to God for rapid spiritual and numerical growth the church had recorded since inception. Nwofor, candidate of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Awka South 1, Anambra State House of Assembly, also expressed joy at what he described as improved turnout of voters at the PVC collection centres. He urged those yet to collect theirs not to sit at home and complain about those in power, insisting their votes would definitely count only if they voted.