From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The new Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brig-Gen Dogara Ahmed, assumed office on Monday as the 22nd DG of the scheme. General Ahmed, during the reception to formally take over at the scheme’s headquarters in Abuja, described his resumption as a homecoming for him, just as he rolled out a five-point agenda for his leadership. “Some years back, I was here as Military Assistant to the then Director-General. This then is a homecoming for me. I remain grateful. I am taking over the administration of the NYSC at a very unique time in history as the scheme will be 50 years old in a few months to come,” he told the gathered audience. “On this note, let me specially commend the Ag. Director-General, current and past management of the NYSC for all the successes recorded by the scheme in its years of existence, despite the numerous challenges in the operating environment. “I assure you that I will not only sustain the high tempo but collectively, we will take the scheme to greater heights. This administration will be open and pay special attention to strategies that will bring the desired improvement in the general operations of the scheme,” he promised. Detailing his agenda, he said: “In this regard, the policy thrust that will drive the administration will focus on: improving security, the welfare of corps members and staff to engender optimal service delivery to the nation; providing enabling environment for research and development for the advancement of the scheme. “Others include strengthening stakeholders’ engagement for the promotion of the frontiers of the scheme; enhancement of capacity building to stimulate efficiency and higher corporate performance; and deepening the impact of the Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme,” he noted. While making an appeal, he said: “I, therefore, solicit for the cooperation of all members of staff and our stakeholders to enable us to move the scheme to a higher level of achievements.” “Meanwhile, let me assure the general public that the NYSC will always make the country proud. Our participation in all national assignments will be exemplary. “I thank the homegrown Ag Director-General for the purposeful leadership in the period of her stewardship of the scheme. You are indeed an administrator per excellence,” he said. In her speech, Ag Christy Ifeyinwa Uba expressed happiness that the new DG is in familiar terrain. “I would like to say in retrospect that I enjoyed the immense support of the National Governing Board, the Management team, members of Staff and other critical stakeholders as we all worked together in continued pursuit of the NYSC mandate. “I, therefore, thank you all for demonstrating loyalty, unity of purpose, and undiluted commitment to the success of the scheme. At this point, I heartily congratulate Brigadier General Ahmed and welcome you on board as the 22nd Chief Executive of NYSC. “It is gratifying to note that you are in a familiar terrain having served as Military Assistant to a former Director-General of the scheme. I am confident that the experience gained in your previous assignment here, and the cordial relationship already established with members of Staff, will facilitate your success as you steer the affairs of this noble organisation. “May I also use this opportunity to assure you that the management team and the entire staff will give you all the necessary cooperation to enable you to succeed. We are conscious of the tasking nature of the NYSC operations. “However, our experiences, loyalty and love for the job will always be brought to bear in surmounting challenges as well as ensuring success in all undertakings. It is my prayer that the Almighty God guides and protects you as you step in for this important national assignment,” she prayed.