From Kenneth Udeh, Abuja Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. More Communities in Anambra Central Senatorial District have continued to testify to the democratic dividends attracted to their localities by the Senator representing the zone at the National Assembly, Senator Uche Ekwunife. The constituents revealed this at separate encounters with Ekwunife the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) during her Ward Tour as she intensified her re-election campaign. Ekwunife a current Senator of the 9th Assembly who flagged off a campaign last Tuesday has hitherto visited ;Umuoji, Uke, Ideani, Oraukwu, Abatete, Eziowelle, Abacha, Ogidi I and II all in Idemili North LGA. At each venue Ekwunife was unanimously endorsed amidst a fanfare reception and constituents gave account of how beneficial her legislative actions have been to their communities via projects, motions and philanthropic deeds. arrived Oraukwu, Idemili North LGA of Anambra State. Shortly after her entry to Oraukwu, Idemili North LGA, Ekwunife headed to the palace of the traditional ruler of Oraukwu, Igwe Barr. Dr. Emeka Onuorah (Igwe Ugochinyere). On Ekwunife’s impacts, the Traditional ruler mentioned the ongoing construction of the Urua- Amada/St. Thomas Parish, Nkwelle Village bypass road which he said will improve the livelihood of the community when finally completed. The Community’s President , Arch. Shedrack Onwuasoanya lauded Ekwunife and noted that the cabinet will mobilize members of the community to ensure maximum victory for Ekwunife. He said; During your time at the House of Representatives, you erected projects in almost all the communities in Anambra Central, this exemplifies you as a grassroots-oriented lawmaker. We appreciate you for the construction of St. Thomas Parish road, Oraukwu. It is better for our people(you) Ekwunife because she stands a greater chance of attracting more dividends of democracy to the community.” At the Fadama field, Abacha were hundreds of residents converged , Ekwunife’s project at St. Michael Secondary School was highlighted by the electorates,while at Abatete the construction of the Eke Abatete Market was also mentioned by the community. Constituents of Ogidi testified further with the construction of the Access feeler road with drainages with culvert at General Hospital, Ogidi as part of Ekwunife’s impact in their community. In seperate addresses, Ekwunife told the residents that her visible and impactful projects which they themselves had testified should be the major reason they should cast their votes in he favour in order to benefit more when she returns to the Senate. The lawmaker noted that its better to support a project-oriented Lawmaker than those who do not have the wherewithal to attract dividends of democracy. Ekwunife beseeched the constituents to encourage her efforts by reelecting her; “The National Assembly is about ranking and as a ranking Senator, I stand a better chance of attracting development and better positions to the zone than electing a non-ranking member. Some of the Stakeholders visited by Ekwunife and her team include; the Traditional ruler of Abacha, HRH Igwe Godwin Nwabunwanne Odiegwu and his cabinet members; Traditional leader of Abatete ,HRH Igwe Emeka Efobi (Chinyelugo) and President General of Abatete, Chief Lawrence Oko. On Ekwunife’s entourage were the PDP State Assembly Candidate for Idemili North, Hon. Vincent Obi (Eze Udo), Former Chairman of ASUBEB, Dr Rose Nwankwo, Director General Ekwunife campaign organization, Chief A. Anagu, Chief Joseph Dimobi and others.