From Olanrewaju Lawal, Birnin Kebbi and Joe Effiong, Uyo Banks’ customers in Birnin Kebbi, who thronged commercial banks to either deposit or withdraw money, were held up in long queues as many from different towns and villages to beat up deadline set by Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) experienced difficulties. Daily investigation  in Birnin Kebbi, the state capital show that customers in their large numbers were sighted at different banks trying to gain access into the banking halls or to the Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) to withdraw new notes. Speaking to newsmen, at one of the commercial bank in Birnin Kebbi, Malam Musa Gero from Kukaru, Gulma in Argungu Local Government Area of the state said he had been on queue since 6:00a.m. but yet without access to the bank. “I have been here for over five hours waiting in the queue to deposit my money. As I am talking to you I am number 260 because the bank officials have written our names and issued numbers to all of us, so, we are still waiting,” he said. He appealed to the Federal Government to consider the plights of Nigerians and extend the time to accommodate all, failing which many people would be counting losses even before the deadline. Gero recalled that he was a die-hard Buharist before his emergence as president, “but that his policies seem to be contrary to the needs of the masses.  Also in an interview at First Bank premises, Malam Muktar Sambo from Zogirma village, Bunza Local Government Area, lamented that in the whole of the area they didn’t have a single bank to be able to do any transaction. He said: “We travel all the way from Bunza to come here and deposit our money since we do not have anywhere to keep our money. “The timing is so short because they said 31st of this month, we came here to withdraw N100,000 but they said a person can only withdraw N40,000 at the ATM machines. “What kind of wickedness is this, somebody with his own money cannot withdraw N100,000 as stipulated by the apex bank. We are appealing to government to rescind its decision by extending the period to enable Nigerians enjoy their hard earned wealth.”  For his part, Malam Ibrahim Hassan, from Birnin Kebbi local government area, said he had been on the queue of Guaranty Trust Bank (GTB) since 7:00a.m. to deposit his money in order to beat the Jan. 31 deadline.  “I am one of those who came first to the bank to deposit money, I have been here before 7:00a.m. but I still have more than 100 people in my front on the queue,” he said.  Hassan decried the non-availability of the new Naira notes in circulation in the state and called on the government to review its policy or extend the deadline.  “Even in the bank now if you want to withdraw money they still give you old Naira notes. This is to tell you that even the banks are in short supply of the new Naira notes.  “I am appealing to CBN to review its policy or extend the deadline by some months for people to have their money changed or deposited in banks.  “Failure to heed to the aforesaid plea may lead to stampede and even deaths but I am not praying for that to happen” he said.  Meanwhile, Akwa Ibom State governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel,  has asked the the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to give adequate sensitisation on the currency rebranding  to checkmate negative impacts on its end users especially traders in the rural and riverine  communities . Governor Emmanuel , who made the advocacy while addressing worshippers at the January 2023 edition of Government House Prayer Summit held at Latter House Chapel , Governor’s Lodge –  Uyo, at the weekend applauded the currency rebranding, even as he said it was “hasty and inconsiderate” of many people particularly given the infrastructure gap and peculiarities of the vast rural and riverine population.  He warned against stifling the grassroots economy in trying to implement a seemingly welcome development. Mr Emmanuel observed that the old currency notes were already becoming scarce while the new notes were yet to be adequately circulated,  expressingworries over inadequate sensitisation to ensure that traders at the rural and riverine communities are carried along and not get stranded in the market with the old notes.