From Sola Ojo, Kaduna Southern Kaduna Christian Leaders Association and its Council of Imams and Ulamas counterparts in the region on Monday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on crisis-free elections this year. A copy of the MoU signed by the representatives of the two religious bodies, Apostle Dr. Emmanuel Nuhu Kure and Chief Imam Muhammad D. Kassim in Kafanchan, Jema’a local government area of Kaduna State indicated the readiness of these leaders and their followers to resist any external forces that may want to cause unrest in the area before, during and after February 25 and March 11 elections. The document read in part; “having identified stakeholders (Christians and Muslims) committed to the promotion of peaceful co-existence among communities in Southern Kaduna, Kaduna State, Nigeria, the above leaders do undertake to sign this MoU as a mark of their commitment towards sustaining peaceful coexistence for progress before, during and after the February/March 2023 elections. “By working together at both the strategic and operational levels, the Southern Kaduna Christian Leaders Association and Southern Kaduna Council of Imams and Ulamaa with their members, collectively and individually, agree to ensure that we will have a crisis-free 2023 elections. “Even if a crisis erupts in other places, we will jointly ensure that it does not consume Southern Kaduna and our members are not involved. “This MoU, therefore, articulates the participants’ shared objectives in support of a crisis-free 2023 elections in Southern Kaduna, and their respective undertakings. “Anyone who attempts to aid outsiders to create or to start a crisis, we will jointly release our members to protect the land from both external and internal trouble before, during, and after the 2023 elections. “This MoU establishes a basis for ongoing dialogue and cooperation between the participants, so that future interventions and areas of mutual interest may be brought under this framework. “We call on all our members to be vigilant and to ensure a peaceful aftermath during the forthcoming elections”.