… as 1, 356 graduates awarded degrees  From Gyang Bere, Jos Vice Chancellor of Plateau State  University Bokkos, Prof. Yohanna Izam said Governor Simon Lalong administration has revamped the institution and placed it on a strong footing to compete favourably with its contemporary across the country. He said it was because of the passion and zeal of Lalong that the University got support for the accreditation of all its courses as well as the introduction of new ones. Prof. Izam disclosed this on Friday at the 6th and 7th combined Convocation of the University held in Bokkos where 1, 356 students were awarded degrees in various field. He explained that new faculties have come on board because of the investment of the State Government as well as the interventions by Tetfund in physical infrastructure and manpower development.  The Vice Chancellor said while a lot has been achieved, there is still need to do more in addressing the challenges of water, power, security and fencing, hostels and staff quarters.  Governor Lalong said he was delighted with the growth of the Plateau State University which started with so much enthusiasm but later suffered setbacks and was nearly aborted by some people for reasons best known to them.  He said to the glory of God, the gains of the establishment of the University have begun to manifest with graduates who are competing favourably with their counterparts across the world. Lalong paid tribute to former Governor of Plateau State, Sen. Joshua Chibi Dariye, who took the bold step to establish the University despite all odds.  He also appreciated former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon who defied skeptics and threw his full weight behind the University.  He said “it is the determination of this government to continue to deploy available resources for the development of both the physical infrastructure and manpower to promote effective teaching, learning and research in the University.  “Because of the efforts we have put in so far and with the support of TetFund and the private sector, the University campus has witnessed tremendous growth and transformation in recent times. This has led to establishment of additional four new faculties of Law, Environmental Science, Health Sciences, Agriculture, Education as well as the School of Post Graduate Studies”. Lalong encouraged the graduands to look beyond certificates and add value to the society by practical demonstration of knowledge acquired as the State and nation is in dire need for solutions to various challenges and is looking up to them. He called on the management and academic staff of the University to also deepen their research and teaching into the critical challenges that are common to Plateau State and nation.  Plateau he said has a unique weather and climate that supports peculiar agriculture, tourism, mining, sports, investment and many other endeavours that can yield jobs and income for our teeming youths.  Honorary Doctorate Degrees were awarded to deserving personalities who include Prof. Ochapa Onazi, Prof. Isawa Eliagwu and Dr. Dere Awosika. Outstanding graduands who got first class in various courses were given automatic employment by the Plateau State Governor as well as certificates and cash. The Governor commissioned some projects which include Post Graduate School, University Rock Garden named after the Governor, Advancement and linkages office block and Faculty of agriculture.