From Okwe Obi, Abuja The Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) and Cadre Harmonisé, has released a scalding report, stating that 25 million Nigerians will experience food insecurity between June and August, this year, if urgent measures are not  taken to address the trend. The figure is a projected increase from the over 17 million people currently at risk of food insecurity in the country, it said. The report said out of the 25 million expected to face hunger this year, 4.4 million people are those living in Borno, Adamawa and Yobe states. The  Cadre Harmonisé (CH) research was conducted in 26 of Nigeria’s 36 states, including the Federal Capital Territory.  It said: “Nearly 25 million Nigerians are at risk of facing hunger between June and August 2023 (lean season) if urgent action is not taken, according to the October 2022 Cadre Harmonisé, a Government led and UN supported food and nutrition analysis carried out twice a year. This is a projected increase from the estimated 17 million people currently at risk of food insecurity .Continued conflict, climate change, inflation and rising food prices are key drivers of this alarming trend.  “Food access has been affected by persistent violence in the north-east states of Borno, Adamawa and Yobe (BAY) and armed banditry and kidnapping in states such as Katsina, Sokoto, Kaduna, Benue and Niger. “The flooding is one of the effects of climate change and variability impacting Nigeria. More extreme weather patterns affecting food security are anticipated in the future. “Of the 17 million people who are currently food insecure, 3 million are in the north-east BAY states. Without immediate action this figure is expected to increase to 4.4 million in the lean season.  “This includes highly vulnerable displaced populations and returnees who are already struggling to survive a large-scale humanitarian crisis in which 8.3 million people need assistance.” Meanwhile, CH’s Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Nigeria, Matthias Schmale, described the food security and nutrition situation across Nigeria as “deeply concerning.” Schmale said: “I have visited nutrition stabilization centres filled with children who are fighting to stay alive. We must act now to ensure they and others get the lifesaving support they need.”