The perennial fuel scarcity, rising inflation, foreign exchange crisis and all forms of economic sabotage ravaging Nigeria can be resolved by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Senator Kashim Shettima once they are elected as president and vice president in February’s general elections. This was revealed by Ahmadu Bello University’s don, Prof. Haruna Yerima, in an interview with newsmen in Abuja yesterday. “Looking at their respective competencies and governance antecedents, Asiwaju Tinubu and Senator Shettima, a celebrated accountant and astute development economist respectively,  are the most suited for the task of arresting the economic slide facing the country, “ he said. Yerima is former House of Representatives member representing Biu, Shani, Kwaya and Bayo federal constituency in Borno state.  He said the APC presidential ticket stood  out from “the maddening crowd of desperate politicians, ethnic bigots, mediocres, and bread and butter candidates.” He said: “Asiwaju Tinubu has carved a niche for himself as an astute economic driver, city builder and transformation apostle. While Senator Shettima had showcased his developmental governance skills and wizardry in developing Borno State despite the murderous Boko Haram campaign. The duo are not fair weather politicians. They have proven competencies and know-how on providing sophisticated solutions to human problems. That is what Nigeria wants at this critical moment of its economic history.” The professor said unlike their competitors, “the Asiwaju/Shettima ticket is well competently tailored to address the burgeoning problems of foreign exchange crisis, trade imbalance, capital flights, energy shortages, brain drain, skyrocketing inflation, youth restiveness, insecurity, infrastructure deficit, among others. Asiwaju and Shettima’s records in Lagos and Borno, speak for them. They are champions in infrastructural revolution, they value human capital, that is why they built an army of mentees across the country.”  Professor Yerima said Nigeria required the doggedness and intellect, maturity and receptiveness of Asiwaju and Shettima.