From Abel Leonard, Lafia The Nassrawa state chapter of the peoples Democratic Party, PDP has condemned the recent killings happening in many Communities in Nasarawa State most especially settlements in Keana, Obi, Awe and Doma LGAs of the state. This was contained in a statement signed by the public Relations officer, Mohammed Ibrahim Hamza sent to Saturday sun on Friday saying it has become too frequent and worrisome particularly as the 2023 general elections approaches. The PDP claimed is forced to raise the alarm since the State government has chosen to overlook the increasing incidence which is targetting the Tiv and other groups in the areas. The statement also noted that a pattern to the attacks and killings has been established since 2011 when elections approaches and the act is being perpetrated by the so called “unknown gunmen” prior to electioneering activities prompting residence to question and conclude that such killings are politically motivated by the enemies of democracy, planned to cause confusion and dispersal of communities and deprive them of exercising their franchise. “Most communities in the areas ate known to have reasonable number of Polling Units that produce thousands of votes, but each time elections are drawing near the innocent citizens from Tiv and other extraction can no longer have their peace, rather the unabated crises would displace them from their respective abode which always hindered their participation during the elections. This deliberate act of lost of life and property is barbaric, evil, inhuman and criminal offense and should be condemned by men of goodwill in the society/government.” * Therefore, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Nasarawa State Chapter equally want to use this medium to call on the relevant/responsible Security Agencies to wake up to their responsibility of protection of life and prosperity as well as to ensure peace and order before, during and after the 2023 General Elections.” “While, Civil Society Organizations, Non-governmental Organizations and Government Agencies should also add their voices in total condemnation of this avoidable lingering crises which have claimed hundreds of human life and lost of property worth millions of naira thereby put the people in a displaced circumstance.’ “As a peace loving political party, the authority of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Nasarawa State wish to use this means to sympathize with the Tiv nation especially the affected communities that lost their loved ones and property recently in Kadorko, Keana LGA. Also, PDP is calling on the good people of the state to join the Rescue Mission Crusade in the country and state to usher in a genuine peoples’ oriented government in the near future.” * Peace is everyone’s concern, because peace for one is peace for all. Peace is sacrosanct, let give PEACE a golden chance. it added.