Catholic Bishop of Abakaliki, Peter Chukwu, has given reasons why he rejected his nomination for Hall of Fame honour by the Ebonyi State Government. Chukwu in a letter dated December 12, 2022 and signed by Governor David Umahi, was nominated for the award of Commander Ebonyi Hall of Fame (CEHF). But the cleric in a letter dated December 16, 2022 made available to journalists, yesterday, and addressed to the Governor, rejected the nomination and award. According to him, he did not deserve the honour. Bishop Chukwu rather advised the government to give the award to his predecessor, Most Rev. Michael Okoro, for his long and meritorious service to God and humanity. He also urged Umahi to direct effort towards dropping murder and other charges slammed on one of the priests in the diocese, Rev. Father Timothy Ngwuta. Fr. Ngwuta had been in detention for several months as he faced murder charge following his being implicated in the Ezza Effium/Effium communal crisis. In the letter captioned: “Re: Notification of your selection for the maiden State of Honour Award 2022 as Commander , Ebonyi Hall of Fame (CEHF),” the bishop commended Governor Umahi for his thoughtfulness in nominating him for the award. Part of the letter read: “Your Excellency, I wish to respectfully decline this award. I am still struggling to fit into the high demands of the ecclesiastical office of the Bishop. So, I feel that I have not achieved much as to deserve an award. If I may suggest, I would rather wish that this award be bestowed on my predecessor, Most Rev. Micheal Nnachi Okoro, for his long and meritorious service to God and humanity. Rather than give me an award, I would prefer that you set in motion actions that would facilitate the termination of murder and sundry charges against my priest, Rev. Timothy Ngwuta. “Accept, your Excellency, the assurances of my highest esteem and regards as you pilot the affairs of the State. Be assured of my constant prayers for you, your government and the good people of our dear state.” The State Government was yet to react to the bishop’s letter as at press time.