From Tunde Omolehin, Sokoto Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, has called on politicians in the country to play politics devoid of rancour. He gave the charge when he received the APC gubernatorial campaign council who visited him in his palace. The Sultan also appealed to politicians to avoid using abusive words during electioneering campaigns. According to him, campaigns should be issues-based, not casting aspersions on one another. Abubakar also stressed the need for peaceful coexistence among the citizens in the interest of the nation. “Conduct your campaign rallies peacefully without jeopardizing the peaceful atmosphere,” he added “As Muslims, we need to understand that power is in the hands of the Almighty Allah, he gives to whom he so wishes,” he added. He further appealed to politicians to maintain the good relationship existing between them at all times. On the resigned new naira notes swap, sultan Sa’ad said the 10 days extension by the Apex bank is not enough. Earlier, the Director General APC governorship campaign council and Minister for Police Affairs, Muhammad Maigari Dingyadi told the monarch that they were in the palace to formally introduce their gubernatorial candidate in the forthcoming election. He solicited the support of the monarch and fatherly prayers to succeed at the poll. In his words, the APC gubernatorial candidate, Ahmed Aliyu Sokoto commended the sultan for the role he plays in ensuring peaceful coexistence among the Nigerians. He underscored the contributions of the Sokoto caliphate founding fathers, especially their literary works which stand the taste of time. “I want to assure you, sir, if elected as governor I will do everything possible to protect the dignity of this revered institution” he added He solicited the support and prayers of the monarch for his governorship candidate. He thanked the sultan for availing the campaign council of the opportunity to meet him, despite his busy schedules.