From Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja, Tony John, Port Harcourt and Priscilla Ediare, Ado-Ekiti Former governor of Enugu State, Chimaroke Nnamani, the National Assembly candidates of the PDP in Ekiti State and Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, have kicked against the suspension of Nnamani, and the lawmakers from Ekiti by the PDP National Working Committee (NWC) over alleged anti-party activities. According to Nnamani, his party, the Peoples Democratic Party, did not give him fair hearing before he was suspended. Nnamani, who was reacting to his suspension, said that he was neither informed of any petition against him nor the basis of the decision of the PDP National Working Committee (NWC) to sanction him. Nevertheless, the former governor, who is also the Senator representing Enugu East in the National Assembly, in a statement, assured his constituents and Nigerians that his “political career is alive and unshaken.” The PDP National Working Committee (NWC) had on Friday suspended the former governor and six others for alleged anti-party activities. His words: “I was never at anytime notified of any petition or complaint against me or informed of the grounds that formed the decision of the NWC of the PDP to suspend me from the party. “I was not also invited to any meeting, proceeding or hearing of the NWC of the party where my supposed offence(s) was/were discussed. I was, therefore, not afforded the opportunity to make representations on my behalf at any meeting where the proposal and decision to suspend me from the party was made. “My right to fair hearing was consequently violated against the clear provisions of the constitution of the party, especially in disciplinary proceedings. More importantly, the superior constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “I, therefore, appeal to all of you to remain calm and law abiding, while we continue our campaign to a hopefully victorious conclusion”. Also in Ekiti State, the National Assembly candidates of the PDP in the state have rejected their suspension by the party. They described the party’s decision as “unnecessary distraction,” saying that they would rather continue reaching out to voters in their various constituencies so as to emerge victorious in the elections. The seven NASS candidates who noted that the purported suspension would have no effect whatsoever on their candidacies emphasized, “our concern now is how to win elections and we will not be distracted.” In a statement they jointly signed and made available to newsmen in Ado-Ekiti, yesterday, the Senatorial candidates, Alhaji Lateef Ajijola (Ekiti Central) and Hon. Funso Ayeni (Ekiti North), as well as the House of Representatives candidates, Otunba Yinka Akerele (Ekiti North 1), Hon. Babatunde Ajayi (Ekiti North 2), Lere Olayinka (Ekiti Central 2),  Oluwajomiloju Fayose (Ekiti Central 1) and Mrs Emiola Adenike Jennifer (Ekiti South 2), called on members and supporters of the party in the state to remain calm, assuring that nothing would be left undone to ensure their deserved victory in the forthcoming elections. While describing the party’s action as unfortunate and unguided, they said by the Constitution of the PDP,  the purported suspension is null and void because none of them was informed of committing any offence. Meanwhile, Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, has described the dissolution of the Ekiti State executive committee of the PDP by the  Iyorchia Ayu-led National Working Committee of the party as an act of tyranny that would be challenged in court. The governor, who dared the PDP national chairman, Ayu, to suspend him or any of the G-5 governors, warned that the resort to despotism by the NWC  would not do the PDP any good in the forthcoming general elections. The Rivers State governor stated this while speaking at the campaign flag-off rally by the State PDP Campaign Council in Bori, Khana Local Government Area yesterday. Wike explained that the reason  the dissolution of the Ekiti State working committee would be challenged in court  was because there are still members of the PDP who believe in the rule of law and that the  party should respect its constitution. “Let me also use this opportunity to say to Iyorchia Ayu and his team, your dissolving Ekiti State Exco will not help you in anyway. Your suspending people will not help you in anyway. The battle line has been fully drawn. As I speak to you, we will do everything legally possible to challenge any decision we know is illegal, stressing that the Ayu-led NWC resort to tyranny would do more damage to the PDP as far as the 2023 general election is concerned. “So, don’t think you can threaten people by saying so, so persons have  been suspended. Rubbish! Completely rubbish. We are above that level that you think you can threaten anybody, intimidate anybody with whatever illegal decision you have taken,” he said. The governor dared Ayu and his cohorts to extend the despotic tendencies to the G-5 governors and see if they could withstand the repercussion. “So, we are waiting for you to announce my own and any other of my friends. Like I have said, when a man says you will not sleep, he too, will he sleep? Will Ayu sleep? Will those his cohorts sleep? So, don’t worry, we have the capacity to pay back.  We have the capacity to tell you that enough is enough.” Governor Wike urged Rivers State electorate  in Khana to vote for the PDP governorship candidate, Sir Siminialayi Fubara, as well as all national and legislative candidates in the 2023 general election in order to consolidate on the achievements of his administration.