From Felix Ikem, Nsukka Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. A Special Assistant to Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State on Media, Hon. Emmanuel Jonathan has thrown his weight behind the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Mr. Peter Obi, and his running mate, Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed, This was contained in a statement he signed in Nsukka on Wednesday and was made available to newsmen, noting that Obi-Datti’s presidential ticket presents more capacity, hope, and unity for the country. The PDP stalwart, who is also is also a chieftain of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the state, noted that his support for the presidential candidate of the Labour Party and his acceptance to head Obi/Datti Apostles Presidential Campaign Support Group as Director General was his personal decision. He said Obi and his deputy’s antecedents and competence had put them above other presidential candidates, hence his decision to support them. “I, in my personal capacity as a member of the Peoples Democratic Party, a journalist cum publisher of a thriven newspaper, a young Nigerian in my early forties choose to add my voice in support of the Peter Obi/ Datti Yusuf Baba-Ahmed, presidential ambition. “Obi-Datti ticket has demonstrated capacity, integrity, competence, prudence, inclusiveness, accountability, and transparency, which are the things the country is yearning for if it must be repositioned to take its rightful place in the committee of progressive nations. ”Nigeria as a country has suffered inept leadership for years leading to the exposure of many innocent Nigerians to a hellish condition while still alive. “The only panacea to redress this situation is to first of all appreciate the word; Truth, Capacity, Justice, Equity, and Fairness while choosing those who will pilot the affairs of Nigeria in the next four years, which the Peter Obi/Datti presidential aspiration epitomizes,” he said. Jonathan said further “I will be heading the Obi/Datti Apostles Presidential Campaign Support Group as Director General with coordinators across the six geopolitical zones and 36 states of the federation including the FCT. “Obi/Datti presidential team presents more capacity, hope, and unity for our country, and the fact that they made it clear that their major agenda is to turn around the economy of Nigeria for the good of all Nigerians through putting on ground a production-driven economy in addition to many other life touching programmes. “Supporting them is my personal opinion as a member of the PDP in Enugu state and it is devoid of any official influence as Special Assistant to the Governor of Enugu State. I remain a member of PDP,” he said.