From Kenneth Udeh, Abuja In continuation of his public utility construction drive within his Senatorial district, Chief Whip of the Senate, Orji Uzor Kalu, has commenced the installation of a solar powered borehole with a 10,000 litre capacity tank in Ndiwo Itumbazor community of Abia North senatorial district. Prior to the project’s flag off, a brief engagement session was held at the palace of the Traditional leader of Itumbazor, Eze Christopher Adandom Iyiewe, Amando 1 of Itumbazor. The session had the presence of Senator Kalu, who was represented by legislative aide, Victor Etie. Others present were the project contractor, community stakeholders, President General of Itumbazor, Chief Jerome Clement, President General of Ndiwo Itumbazor, Chief Uche Adiche and elated residents. This, however, was not the first time a water project would be sited in the community as the Abia North lawmaker had previously constructed similar projects at Ntalakwu and Obibia areas of the community as well as other infrastructures such as renovation of schools, construction of three-kilometre  roads, electrification and installation of 350 KVA transformer amongst others. In the course of Wednesday’s project take off, Kalu reminded the residents of how dear he upholds their interests as he recalled the above listed projects sited in their community within his three year tenure at the senate. The chieftain of the All ProgressiveCongress (APC) intimated the community of the official commencement of the project’s construction and sought their cooperation with contractor handling the project in order for it to be delivered timely. Kalu expressed how important the constituents were to him. “This a community I hold very dear to my heart; that is why I’ll continue to do all within my capacity to ensure you receive your fair share of democratic dividends. “We just came to inform you that the installation of another borehole at Ndiwo has started and the contractor is here with me. I implore you all to grant all the support they need to ensure the project is delivered on time with quality. I’ll use this opportunity to thank you all for your continued support and I’ll do more by God’s grace with your mandate when I return to the Senate”. President General of Itumbazor, Chief Jerome Clement and President General of Ndiwo Itumbazor, Chief Uche Adiche, lauded Kalu for the new and previous projects executed in their localities tagging them as ‘unprecedented’. According to them, the community utility infrastructure was coming at the right time as the only source of water for the community is a stream which is two-kilometre away from the village. They also admitted that the former governor is the first person to provide the community with accessible roads, among other projects. Speaking on behalf of the elated residents, the community leaders vowed to repay Senator Kalu who is standing for reelection back to the Senate with their votes in the February 2023.