From Abel Leonard, Lafia Former Senior Special Assistant to Governor Abdullahi Sule on Political Matters/Inter-Party Affairs, aspirant during the APC state assembly primary for Lafia North constituency, Mrs. Juliana Esla Dauda has decamped to Social Democratic Party SDP to contest for the state house of assembly election. Recalled that Mrs. Esla had lost her case in at the appeal court against Muhammed Alkali after the rulling of the federal high court in lafia declaring Alkali winner of the state house of assembly Lafia North Constituency primary election conducted by the party. Esla announced her decamping on Wednesday during a stakeholders meeting of the party at evergreen hotel, lafia, Nasarawa state capital. Addressing journalist shortly after officially announcing her decamping to SDP stressed that yesterday she was in APC but have chosen to change to SDP today because she was deprived the mandate to be the candidate for gender reason. According to her, she alleged that she won the primary election but was relieved from her and given to a man, adding that the matter was taken to the court for selfish interest not for the interest of the masses. “I feel disappointed when the ticket was collected from me, because am a women, they don’t want a woman to be there, all my labour for APC has become nothingness. But my greatest surprise is that the electorates gathered around me and advised me to join another party so that they can vote me.” “Even though they fight on my behalf but it amounted to nothing.The party is presently sick because I left them and all my supporters followed me. They all know that I put their interest first before my interest and that is why they trust me.” She further said it has become a clarion call to his people and he do not want to disappoint while urging his teeming supporters to vote massively for all the candidates of the SDP from presidential governorship and senatorial candidates. She therefore charged the electorates not to be intimidated by anyone rather they should be free to exercise their right, noting that leadership comes from God and with the way they had secured the mandate in SDP that is how they will be victorious during the election . “Though they might have plans to steal our votes. But I can assure you that our votes is going to be count, I am popular, I don’t need to do any campaign again, president Buhari has made it possible with the introduction of BVAS.” she added. Reacting to her decamping to the Social Democratic party, SDP, deputy governorship candidate of the party representing the party chairman, Mr. Alex Kana expressed happiness for catching one of the big fish of the APC. Kana said the coming of Esla would attract more people to the party as she has the support of the people including some critical stakeholders in the state are behind her. “so we feel very happy that she would continue to fight for her mandate under the platform of SDP.” Also speaking, state party secretary of the social Democratic Party, Mr. Angbas Alu stressed that she opted to withdraw from the contest to allow Mrs. Esla because he is an advocate of gender sensitivity. we are not been fare to women. He further said he also considered the fact that the women Mrs Esla had spent a lot of money trying to secure her mandate while she was at the APC but feel it will not be out of place if he relinquished his ambition for her noting that she has the support of the people in her constituency and “would lead more people into our party.” He said. Convener of the programme, Mr Isah Musa who described the event as a success pledged to support Mrs Esla until she is announced the member representing Lafia North constituency adding that the people had suffered a lot in the hands of the present member. He further said Esla is a politician that is loved by the people and had helped the people in her own little ways while as appointee of the present governor adding that he is convinced that when she wins the election more dividends of democracy would be visible in their constituency.