By Gabriel Dike The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has warned tertiary institutions against sale of admission forms to candidates seeking admission. The board stressed that admission application forms for full-time and part-time courses must be routed through JAMB. A circular to heads of tertiary institutions and admissions officers titled “Serialisation of guidelines for the 2022 admissions exercise continues,” said applications for admission to first degree, national diploma, national innovation diploma and the Nigeria certificate in education into full-time, distance learning, part-time, outreach, sandwich and others must be processed only through JAMB. The board warned heads of institutions that illegal/irregular admissions must stop forthwith “No institution should advertise or sell ‘application forms’ for admissions into the programmes. Institutions should advertise candidates to apply to them through Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB). Duplication of application forms is not allowed,” the board stated. The memo on the 2022 admissions said JAMB and the three other regulatory agencies, the National Universities Commission (NUC), National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) and National Commission for Colleges of Education (NCCE), would ensure that all tertiary institutions comply with this policy directive. The circular said that professional regulatory agencies would also play a role in sanitizing the process. “The duration of all non-full-time studies must be maintained as approved by the regulatory agencies. This is generally not less than 150 per cent of the equivalence of full time.” The board asked institutions that desire to place advertisements could do so with the requirement that candidates who sat for the current UTME (or DE candidates) should change to their institutions as First (1st) Choice rather than requesting the candidates to purchase another application form or apply. This is to prevent the issue of double registration, which is a violation of the mandate of JAMB. JAMB reiterated that no Institution should advertise or sell “application forms” for admissions into the programmes listed above. The board asked the institutions to advise candidates to apply to them through Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB). It warned that duplication of application forms would not be allowed. Meanwhile, the sale of the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) would commence on Saturday, January 14th to Tuesday, February 14th, 2023. While the sale of the Direct Entry (DE) would start on Monday, February 14 to Thursday, April 20th, 2023. JAMB however stated that Optional Mock Examination would start on Thursday, March 16th, 2023 while the conduct of UTME begins Saturday, April 29th to Monday, May 12th, 2023.