Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive of the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI), Prof. Mohammad Sani Haruna, yesterday, said only countries investing in technology can make it. He said it was time to revive craft schools, technical and vocational centres and technical colleges to train critical mass of artisans needed by Nigeria. He also said the quality of human capacity in a nation shapes and determine its progress. Haruna made the submissions at the foundation stone laying ceremony of the NASENI Skill Acquisition Centre, Bagudo in Kebbi State. He said President Muhammadu Buhari approved the construction of skill development centres to meet the challenges of technology gaps and fill the vacuum created by shortage of artisans. “It is the quality of human capacity in a nation that shapes and determines its progress and sustainable development and not commodity or natural resources. Experience has shown that countries that invest adequately in technology acquisition and deployment are the leaders in socio-economic development even if they import all raw material needs of their economy. “Craft schools, technical and vocational centres and technical colleges to train critical mass of artisans needed by Nigeria have either been abolished in most states of the federation or have deteriorated in structures and in workshop equipment and laboratories. “The skill development centres approved for establishment by President Buhari for NASENI across the nation such as the one we are commencing construction in Kebbi  are designed to meet the challenges of technology gap and fill the vacuum created by shortage of artisans, craftsmen, and women. “The centres will be adequately equipped with basics to advanced modern training facilities and equipment for training competitive workforce ready for self-employment generation and entrepreneurship. The future of nations and societies is predicted and reflected on the attitude and preparedness of the young men and women who are the leaders of tomorrow.  “An unemployed critical mass of the young ones who waste the most energetic period of their lives in drug addiction, political thuggery and many crime do not represent a bright future for any country. Indeed, an idle mind (hand) is a devil’s workshop,” he said. Haruna explained that with NASENI’s focus on skills acquisition, the nation will be able to maintain its critical infrastructure.  “The on-going skill development, youth empowerment and the establishment of skill development centres across the country is in fulfilment of Federal Government new employment generation and provision of a competent manpower for the country. The soft component of manufacturing or knowledge-based economy is the quality human resources. This is the most important component, absence of which the country will remain an import-oriented economy. “The technical know-how needed to guarantee sustainability and maintainability of massive infrastructure such as railway, aviation, bridges, the health sector, energy and water resources to mention only a few which are provided by the administration of President Buhari and also, what is needed to transit Nigeria to a manufacturing economy.” Laying the foundation, Governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State appreciated the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, SAN, and NASENI for bringing the project to Kebbi.