By Chukwudi Nweje   Peoples democratic Party (PDP), Lagos chapter, has accused All Progressives Congress (APC) of manipulating and intimidating prospective voters in the state. PDP Publicity Secretary in Lagos and Chairman Jandor/Funke 2023 Campaign Organisation, Hakeem Amode, in a statement, yesterday, said the APC-led government put in place a pre-requisite that those who intend to work in transport parks or rent shops in markets must present their permanent voter cards (PVCs), which the government makes photocopies of. Amode said the action of the state government is aimed at hoodwinking and manipulating voters ahead of the 2023 election. “I call your attention to the ongoing voter manipulation being embarked upon by APC in Lagos State. The manipulation has reached a proportion where it is now been aided by the state government apparatus and we found it imperative to call your attention to the misnomer. We are aware of APC government officials using their position to collect voters’ information and requesting the submission of photocopies of PVC as a prerequisite for work permits in transport parks and trading in the markets. We view these directives and actions as hoodwinking and an attempt by APC government to manipulate the 2023 election ahead,” he said. He also accused some staff of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the state of colluding with the APC to deny some groups of people access to collect their PVCs. “In consonance with the promise of President Muhammadu Buhari to deliver a credible election which we have seen the demonstration in Ekiti and Osun states gubernatorial elections, we call the attention of the president, INEC Chairman and the inspector general of police to the voter’s manipulation anomalies currently going on in Lagos State,” he said. Amode noted that the PDP campaign is severally attacked by suspected APC thugs and agents of the state government when it goes on campaign, even as market women are forcibly made to surrender souvenir given to them by the PDP, and motorists forced to adorn their vehicle with APC stickers. “We have suffered several onslaughts from the ruling APC government, and we have remained resolute in mobilising the grassroots’ voters who are directly affected and had endured the harassment, intimidation, and high-handedness that is synonymous with this administration. We cannot afford to continue to allow the ruling party to continue the display of entitled hegemony in a democratic society. We believe the people have a say in who is elected to form a government and the sanctity of their choice should be respected and protected under the electoral law and process…Members of the Lagos Transport and Motor Parks Administration in the state have continued to forcefully intimidate transport operators to adorn the campaign stickers of the APC on their vehicles and to submit their PVCs to continue to operate in the state. We find this directive inimical to a free and fair election and another attempt by the ruling party to manipulate the 2023 elections. “Our party is also aware of the removal of our banners from the highways and replacing them with that of the ruling party. We have been reliably informed of the usage of an agency of the state, the Lagos State Signage and Advertising Agency to remove our posters in several locations in the state,” he said.