Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has promised to remain bold in his actions and utterance, in line with the dis- position that earned him The Sun Courage in Leadership Award 2022. He said although his administration is on its last lap, he would continue to deliver development in Rivers State. Governor Wike is among 25 eminent Nigerians who would be honoured at the The Sun Awards ceremony on January 28, 2023, at the Expo Convention Centre, Eko Hotels and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos State. Speaking in Port Harcourt when the management team of The Sun Publish- ing Limited led by the Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief, Mr. Onuoha Ukeh, presented to him a nomination letter for the award, Wike said: “Let me, on be- half of the government and the people of the state most sincerely thank The Sun which has always seen our good works and honoured Rivers State severally through me. This honour is not for me, but for the entire people of the state, even though I represent the state. “I thank you and I assure you, by the grace of God, that this award will spur us more to do what we are supposed to do. You will not say because we have a few months to leave office and, therefore, we will not do what our mandate requires. Our mandate terminates on the 29th of May, 2023.” Insisting that the country cannot record desired growths unless those in leadership are told the truth, Wike advised the media to always critically look at the activities and conduct of public officers and criticise them when they are not doing the right thing. He contended that the major problem facing Nigeria was not non-availability of money, but the seeming failure of those in leadership to stand for the truth and promote it always. He said: “To tell you the truth, in most cases, I believe that society gets better or will get better because of your (press) contributions. “Society may not move forward also when you don’t make contributions. The press plays a big role, over-sighting what public officers or those who have been trusted with responsibility are doing. “The truth remains that, we are in a society where nobody wants to stand firm; nobody wants to stand for the truth. People talk based on what will benefit them; if it suits you today, great; if it does not suit you, bad. This is not how it should be.” Earlier, in his remarks, The Sun MD described Wike as “a leader with a political will, exhibiting uncommon courage to surmount challenges.” According to him, the governor has not only exhibited courage but also can-do attitude, emphasising: “Mr. Governor, you are not afraid to take decisions and never stands aloof when something is required to be said or done.” According to him, “at a time when people in public office shy away from talking or doing what will change the society, you have exhibited courage in your action as a political leader and as a governor of Rivers State. “By your trajectory, you are proved to have a big heart, take up tough task, make a success of them and break the jinx. “You have proved to be a strong leader, creating and establishing strong institutions. That is what makes the difference. These show by the things you do, like the women inheritance law. It takes only a man with a strong heart to delve into women inheritance in this part of the country.” On projects execution in the State, Ukeh hailed the governor for doing what he called soul-lifting projects, even when there was global economic recession. He said: ”You have done many things that people dare not to do. You have executed legacy projects, did roads to communities that have never had roads in Rivers State. You have done law school in a record time. You have built hospitals and others. And these things are happening at a time when there is economic recession and reduced revenue.” The MD said Wike’s courage to change the face of Rivers State and restore the glory, has seen him “executing soul-lifting projects that have earned accolades including an excellence award from President Muhammadu Buhari, an award that proves that even your critics recognise that you have done a lot.” On politics, Ukeh commended the governor’s doggedness, saying: “You are a dogged fighter, the voice of the downtrodden, a strong voice in your political party, the People’s Democratic Party and nationally, an advocate of justice and fairness, as well as a leader who is unarguably the conscience of the society.” The MD said these qualities earned Wike the Courage in Leadership award. Apart from Wike, others who will also receive awards are, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State and Mallam Mele Kyari, Group Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (Man of the Year); Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, Governor of Abia State; Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State and Governor Umaru Fintiri of Adamawa (Governor of the Year); Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State (Political Icon) and Dr. Zainab Shinkafi-Bagudu (First Lady of the Year). Other award winners are, General Overseer, Omega Power Ministries, Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere, Chief James Chijioke Ume, Chairman, Unubiko Foundation (Humanitarian Icon); Mr. Festus Mbisiogu, Chairman, Shanghai Engineering Works Limited, Lady Ada Chukwudozie of Dozzy Group (Industrialist of the Year); Barr Mrs. Ngozi Ekeoma, Managing Director, Nepal Energies Limited, Chief Benjamin Igwe (Entrepreneur of the Year) as well as Dr. Stanley Uzochukwu, Chairman of Stanel Group and Dr. John-Kennedy Opara, Chairman, CSS Ingrated Farms Limited (Investor of the Year). Also to receive awards are, Chief Kelvin Jumbo Onumah, Chairman of Sublime Group Limited (Hospitality Personality), Mercy Johnson-Okogie (Nollywood Personality); philanthropist and elder statesman, Chief Gabriel Igbinedion, Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife, ex-Anambra State governor; Alhaja Sinatu Ojikutu, ex-Lagos Deputy Governor, Alhaji Sule Lamido, former Jigawa State governor (Lifetime Achievement). Others are, Prof. Mohammed Sani Haruna, Executive Vice Chairman, National Agency for Science, Engineering Infrastructure; Dr. George Moghalu, MD, National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA); Dr. Richard Okoye, Chief Medical Director, Save A Mission Hospital, Port Harcourt (Public Service) and Mr. Olukayode Pitan, MD, Bank of Industry (Banker of the Year).