From Geoffrey Anyanwu, Enugu and David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi Governor Charles Soludo of Anambra State has called for the immediate and unconditional release of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, who has been in the detention facility of the Department of State Services (DSS) since 2021. Governor Soludo who made the demand during the APGA campaign kick-off in Awka yesterday, specifically appealed to the Federal Government to release Nnamdi Kanu unconditionally. The governor went further to assert that if the detained IPOB leader could not be released unconditionally, he should be released to him, saying that he was ready to stand surety for him. Hear him: “I am making a passionate appeal to the Federal Government to release Mazi Nnamdi Kanu unconditionally. If he cannot be released unconditionally, I want him released to me and I will stand surety for him. “We need Nnamdi Kanu in the roundtable conversation to discuss the insecurity in the Southeast. We must end insecurity in the Southeast and we need Nnamdi Kanu to be around.” Soludo promised to cater for Kanu and also offered to bring  him to the authorities any time he was required. Similarly, the Archbishop of Enugu Province and Bishop of Enugu Diocese Anglican Communion, Most Rev Emmanuel Chukwuma also urged the Federal Government to release the IPOB leader. Chukwuma who turned 69 years today also called on Nigerians to use the opportunity of the February and March elections to change the cause of the country by voting in men and women of sound character, vision and positive mission to move Nigeria out of insecurity and poverty. Addressing newsmen yesterday at press conference at the Bishop’s Court Independent Layout, Enugu, to mark the celebration of his 69th Birthday, 33rd Consecration Anniversary, 42nd Marriage Anniversary and Divine Healing Thanksgiving holding today at the Cathedral of Good Shepherd, Chukwuma said releasing Kanu would definitely bring down tension in the Southeast. He said: “I am praying that as we celebrate this birthday, that Christians must intensify their prayers for a better Nigeria and a peaceful Nigeria. I am also praying that this election will be free and fair. “More importantly, I want to pray that Nnamdi Kanu should be released so that at least we can have peace. Releasing him will douse tension in the Southeast. Nobody should say that releasing him will cause confusion. We appeal that we will be very much ready to put everything on check.” XXX