From Fred Itua, Abuja Niger State Police Command has been accused of  allegedly detaining a young man, Shamsudeen Hakimi illegally for 11 days at the order of the state Governor. Hakimi’s detention was allegedly orchestrated by Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, over a facebook post asking him to rehabilitate the General Hospital where he was born. Hakimi, in the post which was made on December 17, 2022, lamented the deterioration of the General Hospital in Tungan Magajiya, Rijau local government area of Niger State. He accused the  Governor of neglecting the hospital despite being the same place where he was born. He said all attempts by residents of the community to draw the attention of the Governor to address the plight of the people for the provision of a medical facility were rebuffed and ignored. The post written in Hausa, and translated into English reads: “May Allah bless your birth in this hospital. I, Shamsudeen Hakimi, swear to God; if I am a big government employee or a big businessman, and I was born in this hospital, and it is true that the hospital is in this condition, I swear, I will fix it with my money. Talk less of being the governor of the state and the one who has been two times. “It is not with your money, we want you to fix this hospital with our rights that are being sent from Federal because we work not for you, we don’t want anything about you, we are patient, we obeyed, we made a letter, we sent a committee and sent, we attract attention. We are going to do this first, how can we keep quiet and say we don’t talk, I swear we will talk. “You will reap what you sow very soon, and you have started seeing it since yesterday at Trade Fair Complex. Until they call your name and people will say we don’t like it. And if we are here, you will be ashamed Rijau, but not ashamed of getting votes. Rijau, just know that you are not yours. Anyone that lies to you that you will win don’t know what he is doing. The one with a thousand people is not ashamed,” he had written. Hakimi, while speaking with our correspondent, disclosed that he honoured an invitation by the Police to the headquarters in Minna. According to him, the Police had been on his trail after he made the post. He said that when he  showed up at the police command, he was immediately detained after being asked if he was behind the facebook post. Hakimi said that after days in detention, effort was made by a lawyer to secure his release, but they were informed there was a directive from the Governor for his continued detention. He added that while in detention, he suffered an eye injury in the middle of the night from a mysterious bug bite which almost claimed his sight. Hakimi said he was released on the 11th day while seeking medical attention to his eye injury.