By Steve Agbota Apapa Command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) on Thursday, said it generated over N1.022 trillion from Apapa ports and seized 157 containers of tramadol and other illicit drugs worth  N14.4 billion in 2022.  The command also said it arrested about 60 suspects in connection with various contraband during the year under review and facilitated about N28.2 billion of non-oil commodities with a total tonnage of 6.4 million metric tonnes exported through Apapa port.   The Customs Area Controller of the Command, Malanta Ibrahim Yusuf, said the revenue collected by the command was 16.07 percent higher than the N870,388 billion raked in 2021.  According to him, from the second quarter of last year, the sector experienced a backdrop in-trade, occasioned by fluctuations in exchange rate and a sharp drop in the purchasing power by the consumers which made trade unpredictable.  However, he  said with all the above-mentioned setbacks in the clearance value chain, the command was able to collect revenue to the tune of N1.022 trillion as revenue for the year 2022.  Yusuf added that the feat was made possible because of its  officers and men resilience in blocking revenue leakages and ensuring that all unpaid declarations and unutilised PAARs has been traced and accounted to the federal government coffers.  He hinted that the command has intensified its anti-smuggling operations through leveraging on its technological infrastructure to ensure that illicit trade, which pose threat to the national security and wellbeing of the society are being detected and controlled from finding their way to our society.  “The command has strived to move beyond its potentials to ensure synergy and collaboration with other stakeholders in the port to address the menace of illicit importation. In the year under review, a total number of 157 containers with a duty paid value (DPV) of N14.4 billion were seized, as against 102 containers with DPV of N31.8 billion seized in the year 2021.  “Our record shows that fake and prohibited drugs without necessary NAFDAC certification and overdose drugs of Tramadol top the list of seizures made last year. Other items seized include codeine syrup, foreign parboiled rice, vegetable oil, processed/unprocessed wood, used clothing’s, etc,” he said.  So far, he said a total number of 60 suspects were arrested in connection with some of the seizures and are at various stages of investigation and prosecution by other agencies of government handed over to.  On export trade, in line with the Federal Government diversification of the economy in non-oil export, he said the command recorded a total of $68.5 million Free onboard (FoB) value with a naira equivalent of N28.2 billion of nonoil commodities with a total tonnage of 6.4 million Metric tonnes exported through Apapa port.  He revealed that items exported through Apapa Port last year 2022 include steel bars, agricultural produce such hibiscus, sesame seeds, cocoa, cashew nuts, ginger, soya beans, and mineral products.