• Star actress, Chioma ‘Chigul,’ ace broadcaster, Otori, pair as hosts Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Former Governor of Ogun State and media icon, Aremo Segun Osoba, will tomorrow chair the rave-of-the-moment, The Sun Awards. The award ceremony, holding at the Convention Centre of Eko Hotels & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, will see 26 Nigerians receiving various awards. In accepting to be chairman of the event, Osoba said it would be a pleasure playing a role in a ceremony where Nigerians adjudged to have done well are being honoured. “I accept your invitation to be chairman at The Sun Awards. It will be a pleasure,” Osoba said. Tomorrow’s event is the 20th edition of The Sun Awards. Starting at 6pm with Red Carpet, it promises to be an event with high entertainment content. Meanwhile, on-air-personality, Abdulfatai Otori, and star actress, singer and television host, Chioma “Chigul” Omeruah, will be joint hosts of The Sun Awards. Otori, a newscaster, voiceover artist, presenter and producer with the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN), spices up every event and celebration he anchors with his unique style, outstanding diction, baritone voice and vibrant personality. Popularly referred to as the ‘Safest Hand on Radio, he has command of words, jokes and can banter with clichés and memes in a way that creates a relaxed setting for guests. He has the knack for crowd engagement. “Chigul” who has many years experience in the entertainment industry, in Nigeria and beyond, is a polyglot, being proficient in English, Igbo, Hausa, French, and Spanish languages. As events host, she keeps guests laughing and entertained, while being “alert and attentive to steer her captive audience through the protocol of different kinds of functions.” On her return to Nigeria from the United States, “Chigul,” the beautiful daughter of former Anambra State Military governor and ex-Minister for Information, Youth, Sports and Culture, the late Air Commodore Samson Emeka Omeruah, penetrated the entertainment scene with a series of songs released via the Blackberry Messenger Voice Note platform. She has appeared on stages in Nigeria and the US, playing various roles in “A Raisin In The Sun”, “The Bald Soprano”, “The Lion King”, and “End Times Like These.” “Chigul” has also featured in several films, like “Road To Yesterday” by Genevive Nnaji, “Banana Island Ghost” and “Chief Daddy.” To thrill the audience at The Sun Awards is music sensation, Chike-Ezekpeazu Osebuka, simply known as Chike, a singer, actor and songwriter. Chike, who has done collabo with Simi and Flavour, among others, rose from being a contestant of music talent television reality show, Project Fame West Africa in 2015, to prominence in the entertainment industry with his album “Boo of the Booless,” which included “If You No Love Me”, “Roju”, “Beautiful People”, “Running.” His “Nwoke Oma” track is also a chart buster. Speaking on what to expect at The Sun Awards, The Sun Publishing Limited Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief, Mr. Onuoha Ukeh, said there will not be a dull moment, as the audience is in for a night of entertainment, fashion extravaganza and celebration. Those who will receive awards at the event are, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State and Mallam Mele Kyari, Group Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (Man of the Year); Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, Governor of Abia State; Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State and Governor Umaru Fintiri of Adamawa (Governor of the Year); Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State (Courage in Leadership); Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State (Political Icon) and Dr. Zainab Shinkafi-Bagudu (First Lady of the Year). Other award winners are, General Overseer, Omega Power Ministries, Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere, Chief James Chjioke Ume, Chairman, Unubiko Foundation (Humanitarian ServiceIcon); Mr. Festus Mbisiogu, Chairman, Shanghai Engineering Works Limited, Lady Ada Chukwudozie (Industrialistof the Year); Barr Ngozi Ekeoma, Chief Benjamin Igwe (Entrepreneur of the Year); Dr. Stanley Uzochukwu, Chairman of Stanel Group; Dr. John-Kennedy Opara, Chairman, CSS Integrated Farms Limited (Investor of the Year) and Chief Kelvin Jumbo Onumah, Chairman, Sublime Group (Hospitality Personality). Also to receive awards are, Mercy Johnson-Okojie (Nollywood Personality); Chief Gabriel Igbinedion, Esama of Benin Kingdom, Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife, ex-Anambra State governor; Alhaja Sinatu Ojikutu, ex-Lagos Deputy Governor, and Alhaji Sule Lamido, former Jigawa State governor (Lifetime Achievement). Others are, Prof. Mohammed Sani Haruna, Executive Vice Chairman, National Agency for Science, Engineering Infrastructure; Dr. George Moghalu, MD, National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA); Dr. Richard Okoye, Chief Medical Director, Save A Mission Hospital Group, Port Harcourt (Public Service) and Mr. Olukayode Pitan, MD, Bank of Industry (Banker of the Year).