From Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri The Indigenous People of Biafra(IPOB) has turned down the request of Anambra State governor, Chukwuma Soludo to stand as a surety for its leader,Nnamdi Kanu who is still being detained by the Department of State Security Service (DSS). IPOB in a statement by its spokesperson, Emma Powerful on Monday although commended the voluntary move by Soludo even as it complained that the request was belated. According to Powerful ,Kanu does not need any surety because because he has already been discharged by the court. He said “We wish to welcome the recent call by the Governor of Anambra State-Governor Charles Soludo for the unconditional release of our leader mazi Nnamdi Kanu. “Though the said call for the unconditional release of our leader is belatedly coming three months and one day, after the Court of Appeal , Abuja judicial division, in its erudite judgement delivered on the 13th day of October 2022, discharged and acquitted the leader of IPOB and all the remaining 8-Count amended charge preferred against him, and consequently directed for his unconditional release. “The landmark judgement further prohibited the Federal Government of Nigeria from further detaining our leader or even presenting him for trial on any indictment or offence whatsoever before any court in Nigeria. “It is important therefore, to clarify that our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu has no any form of indictment or even charge pending against him today before any court by the authority of this Judgement. “The issue of granting bail or otherwise does not arise by any stretch of consideration or imagination, because it is the Federal Government that is today in breach of this order of superior court of competent Jurisdiction. “It is to be emphasized further that onyendu who was discharged on the 13th Day of October 2022, by by the court of appeal court do not have any need for surety because there is no charge hanging on his neck today. “We have gone beyond issue of Surety or no surety, every genuine call or demand in the prevailing circumstance should be firmly directed at calling out on the Federal Government of Nigeria to immediately obey the order for the unconditional release of Kanu made by its own court. “May we also remind Governor Soludo and others, that Kanu’s current incarceration is not sanctioned by any law known to man,it is unconstitutional and affront to constitutional democracy and rule of law. “Further to the above, is the fact that Mazi Nnamdi Kanu have no case to answer again, therefore, the need for surety does not arise,instead Governor Soludo should gear all his efforts towards persuading and compelling on the lawless Fulani rulers of Nigeria to obey their own Law.” Powerful explained. He also added “It is to be pointed out further, that this kind of plea is the reason why rulers of Nigeria have no regard for the rule of Law, why should we be pleading with them to obey their own court orders directing for the unconditional release of Kanu. It’s compelling and mandatory on their part to obey their own court orders. “Federal Government is today is grave contempt of the orders of court of its own court , and their appeal before the Supreme Court can not justify the present illegal incarceration of our leader in a solitary confinement in DSS.” Powerful stated. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.