From Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure Tomorrow, Wednesday, January 18, 2023, octogenarian Chief Dayo Michael Duyile will stand tall among 64 PhD graduates of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Akoka, Yaba, Lagos, at its 53rd convocation.  Duyile, 82, emerged oldest graduate of the 60-year-old university from the Department of Mass Communications. The grandpa is not done yet with the academic feat, he has his eyes on becoming a professor. The octogenarian is a veteran journalist, an academic and former director, Nigerian Institute of Journalism (NIJ), Ogba, Lagos. He was one of the few journalists who covered the foundation-laying event of UNILAG 60 years ago. As fate would have it, he bagged all his degrees from the university. He spoke with The Education Report. Excerpts:   Who is Dayo Duyile? I am a journalist and an academician, specialising in mass communication. I am 82 years old and I will be 83 years old this October, by the special grace of God.  I’ve been in journalism for over 60 years. I am also an author. I hail from Ondo but was educated in Lagos and socialised in Ibadan, Oyo State. I spent all my active years in journalism in Ibadan.  I started my journalism career in 1960 with Southern Nigerian Defender in Ibadan. It was published by Dr. Nnamdi Azikwe. The newspaper started in 1945 and Pa Anthony Enahoro edited it. I joined the newspaper as a trainee reporter in February 1960 in Ibadan. I moved from there to Nigerian Tribune in 1961 and later Daily Times. I also worked with Daily Sketch and from there I moved to WNTV/WNBC. I became editor, Daily Sketch, in 1976. From there, I joined the National Concord, owned by MKO Abiola. I left Concord to become director, NIJ.    Having worked as a journalist for decades, how would you compare journalism during your own days with the present practice? I would say that the only line of demarcation between the two is that the new generation of journalists achieved more in education than their predecessors. The old journalists were good writers but not everyone was well educated.  I met so many old journalists like Baba Lateef Jakande, Anthony Enahoro and Babatunde Jose. All these people didn’t attend any university. But they were fine writers who had a good command of the English language, unlike present-day journalists. Nigeria was under colonial rule at that time. Their write-ups contributed to Nigeria’s independence.  Another thing is that the old generation of journalists was not after money. They were ethical and professional. They were all dedicated and committed to the ideals of journalism. They obeyed the ethics of journalism to the letter in their days, unlike now. Many of them developed themselves on the job and didn’t go to any university. The reverse is the case today.   What were the major challenges you faced in journalism? I had many challenges in journalism. The one I will not forget is what happened when I was in Daily Times when Chief Obafemi Awolowo was under house arrest. Early in the morning, my source told me there was trouble in Awolowo’s house. I went there but no one was willing to talk to me, but I filed my story. I covered his case of treasonable felony from beginning to end.  Another one was when I was covering the case of people smoking and selling Indian hemp in Lagos. I was with the hoodlums and drug addicts for four months. I was meeting with them every day and found out how they were exporting marijuana to England.  I also found out the details of their illicit acts and published everything in Daily Times. My life was in danger as they were looking for me. My editor transferred me to Ibadan. I returned to Lagos after those people were tried and jailed.  The head of the narcotics department of the Nigeria Police Force wrote me a commendation letter to appreciate my efforts. That was the most beautiful investigative report I did. I’ve documented everything in my memoirs, which will be out next month.  How did your academic journey start? I didn’t want to be an academic, initially. My objective was to be a journalist and that I achieved, by the grace of God. I became a journalist not by accident or mistake. I made up my mind to be a journalist and I was a journalist, by the grace of God.  My father encouraged me to be a journalist because my father was a regular subscriber to West African Pilot, Daily Times and Nigerian Tribune. My father would read all these newspapers. Each time he finished reading them, I would take them and read them.  When I finished my London GCE and my colleagues were looking for jobs in lucrative companies, I was looking for a job in newspaper houses and I got it. My colleagues were earning more than me but I was satisfied because it was a dream come true. While working in Daily Times, the managing director, Alhaji Babatunde Jose, came up with a policy that, for anyone to become an editor of any of the titles published by the Daily Times, he or she must have a university degree. That spurred many of us to acquire a university degree.  Many others and myself got enrolled in the University of Lagos for a Diploma course in Mass Communications. When I completed the course, I enrolled for my first degree (BSc) in Mass Communications. I went back to the university for my master’s degree (MSc) also in Mass Communications.  Many years after, I returned to the university for my PhD, also in Mass Communications. I was already doing a distance learning PhD programme at a university in Washington but Prof. Ismail Ibrahim of the Mass Communications, UNILAG, advised me to stop it and start at UNILAG. How do you feel being the oldest PhD graduate of UNILAG? Honestly, it interests me a lot. I didn’t know I would be the oldest doctoral candidate at the university. I just enrolled and I eventually became the oldest student. My intention was just to do my PhD programme and nothing more.  A university in America had given me admission for PhD many years ago. I couldn’t go because I was already the director of NIJ at that time. Alhaji Jakande, who was the chairman of the board of directors of the institute, did not grant my permission to go. I couldn’t go against his wish. He said my appointment was fresh. He did not allow me to leave, citing the evening class, which I introduced. I couldn’t disobey Alhaji Jakande because I had a lot of respect for him. He signed my letter of appointment in Nigerian Tribune and had been mentoring me since then. He mentored me in the Tribune. He made my three years in the Tribune interesting.  He was interested in my progress. He always monitored me, even after leaving the Tribune. I can remember the testimonial he gave me while leaving Tribune in 1962. He wrote in the testimonial: “Dayo Duyile came from Nigerian Tribune. Anytime there is no senior reporter at hand, Dayo Duyile is always our answer. He will go far in his chosen career.”  I cherish that testimonial more than anything. I still have it in my file today.  I had left Lagos and retired to my hometown, Ondo. Then it occurred to me to return to school for my PhD programme and I started it. Now, I emerged as the oldest PhD graduate. This really gladdens my heart.   What’s the reaction of your children when they heard you were going for PhD? They were all supportive and I owe them gratitude. All of them supported me and there was encouragement from all of them. They’re in support of the programme because they believe in me. They know that I am the type of person that will always achieve my target. Some of them even sent me money to support me. All of them always get in touch with me. They are all living abroad now. They didn’t give me any challenges all through.   What’s the contribution of your thesis to knowledge? My thesis is titled “Historiography of Development of Early Newspapers in Nigeria.” It focused on how early newspapers began in Nigeria and the purpose of setting up the newspapers. It covered Henry Townsend’s newspaper, which was known as Iwe Iroyin Fun Awon Ara Egba Ati Agbegbe Re. I had to go to Cadbury Research Library, University of Birghminham, England, for two months because I couldn’t get materials in Nigeria. The research work took me to Abeokuta, Calabar, London and Birghminham    Considering your age, how did your supervisors treat you? I had two of them, Prof. Oloruntola Sunday and Prof. Ismail Ibrahim. The two of them were very supportive and they really cooperated with me. They encouraged me as well. They were both professors of Mass Communications, who knew what they were doing. As an experienced newspaperman, I pocketed my experience and allowed them to guide me and they really did that. They advised me and encouraged me.   What’s the reaction of your fellow doctoral students who were younger? They were all very nice and kind to me seeing an old man in their midst. They always looked forward to seeing me in class even though I was coming from Ondo to Lagos. They respected me a lot and showed me a lot of love.  I was teaching at the Adekunle Ajasin University where I established their Department of Mass Communications. So also Joseph Ayo Babalola University, Ikeji, Arakeji, where I also set up their Mass Communications department and the Elizade University, Ilara-Mokin, where I lecture now. I was going from Ondo to Lagos three times a week during the coursework until we went to the field.   Was there a thought of abandoning the programme at any time? There wasn’t such thought at all. I never thought of abandoning it. I’ve been thinking of doing my PhD for over 32 years. No thought of abandoning it at all. It was a great determination.   At over 82, do you think having a PhD really worth it? Yes, it does. It is really worth it. When I went to Jamaica on sabbatical, I saw old people in their late 80s and 90s teaching at the university. I saw a 90-year-old man teaching and still doing research at the university. It is really worth it. I also met a 92-year-old professor, who said he had his PhD at 80 and still teaching.  It is really worth it for me. I am still writing books on journalism and mass communications and still teaching at the university. I’m sure I can still contribute to knowledge at my age.   How did your family celebrate you when you finished the PhD programme? My wife was excited and the children were too. It’s a mission accomplished for me and a dream come true. My family was really happy seeing me realise my life ambition because they all know it’s my life ambition. They were happy that at last I made it and I thank them for the support.   What’s your next plan? I want to do a post-doctoral fellowship now. That’s the next ladder I want to climb. It’s a one-year research work with experienced emeritus professors. That’s the next step. Many universities do that abroad. I’m looking forward to doing that now. After that, I will be writing books. Already, I have written six books on journalism and mass communications. I will continue to write books and do research with articles published in academic journals till I’m pronounced a professor. After two years from now, I will be asking for a professorial seat if God spears my life.   How would you compare the public universities with the private ones, being a product of a public university and teaching in a private university? I will say that UNILAG has always been my choice. I witnessed the foundation laying of the university in the 60s as a reporter. I attended the university for all my academic programmes. I was given admission twice for my PhD at UNILAG.   What major legacy did you leave at NIJ where you served as director? Everywhere I go, I always leave good legacies. I left good legacies at NIJ. Number one of them is that my students are all doing well in different places today. Many of them are editors of major newspapers today. I helped to develop the institute’s curriculum for journalism and built a library with the support of a great businessman, Alhaji Hassan Adamu.  There was no library in NIJ before. During my time as Director, we built a good library. I also introduced evening classes for media practitioners who wanted to further their studies. Many journalists were able to develop themselves academically as a result of the evening class. I also linked the institute with other international schools like the Ghana Institute of Journalism.   At 82 and with your PhD, would you say you have fulfilled your life dreams? I think it’s not possible to fulfill one’s dreams in a lifetime. Yes, I’ve tried my best and I will continue. I want a professorial seat. My policy is that I will remain a journalist till I die. And if there’s the practice of journalism in heaven, I will resume my journalism career in heaven.