From Okwe Obi, Abuja Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Relaxation spots like gardens, eateries, hotels, clubs and amusement parks are springing up indiscriminately in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. The seat of power, hitherto, was believed to be a civil servant capital. But that notion is now a perception of the past. This is because business minded people are innovatively wetting the appetite and insatiable desires of fun seekers with mind-blowing architectural piece, karaoke, seductively dressed ladies and handsomely looking young men as waiters, receptionists and cashiers. From Galadimawa Roundabout to Wumba Junction, down to Apo axis, residents are greeted with nothing less than 20 gardens, bars, clubs, service apartments and so on. Wuse, Gwarimpa, Nyanya, Maitama and A.Y.A are taking the same shape. The story is the same in Kubwa, Dutse, Abaji, Galadima, Dei-Dei, Bwari, Karishi and Orozo. Some centres are situated in estates. Some operators plant signboards to woo customers, others do not to evade taxes and levies. The booming business has seen most people converting their permanent residences into relaxation haven. Interestingly, about 50 per cent of the gardens rest on portions of land in which houses were demolished by the administration of Nasir El’Rufai. Local and intercontinental delicacies like catfish pepper soup, grilled chicken, roasted fish, shawarma, Arabian tea, assorted cow parts and bush meats are sumptuously prepared to entice customers. Hookah or shisha, cigarettes, marijuana are in abundance. Drinks like beer, minerals and juice are in full supply. They are refrigerated to the height of what is called “mortuary standard” for those who are not allergic to cold substance. Brandy, whiskey, red wine and palm wine are not scarce. To forestall crisis and to ensure that guests get a feel of the ambience, heavily body built bouncers mostly in dark kits with scanners are positioned in both the entrance and exist of the premises. Suspicious looking fellows are thoroughly surveyed before they are allowed inside some parks. The competition is so fierce that managers employ entertainers like cultural troopes, comedians and dancers that appeal to guests to thrill them especially at weekends. More so, different genres of contemporary and old school classics are belted out leaving customers shaking their heads and stamping their feet. Amid that, gigantic television sets and projectors are placed in different positions for football lovers. Children playing ground, bouncing castle, snooker, ping pong, chess and other in-house games have become permanent fixtures. There is no dull moment as those who are experiencing epileptic power supply, purchase ice block to chill their drinks to sustain the patronage. Point of Sale (POS) operators have latched into the opportunity. They station themselves at every corner of enjoyment places in the eventuality of cash drought or poor network service. Price differential of items like drinks, food, snacks is determined by the location and sophistication of the spot. Highbrow places like Asokoro, Maitama, Gwarimpa consumables are relatively on the high side because of the caliber of guests. Most managers told Daily Sun that they raised the prices of items to ward off certain kinds of persons. The business has been spiced up by the presence of commercial sex workers who appear as guests and wink at potential customers. Some spot owners, however, prohibit them from harassing guests because most customers do not fancy their modus operandi and for the fear of being sanctioned by the FCT authorities who frown at such demeanor. Warnings from the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) against people erecting illegal structures for hospitality venture have fallen in to deaf ears. Also, directive given by the FCTA that parks should close at 7pm to enable government checkmate the activities of owners, has been flagrantly flouted. Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement to the Minister of the FCT, Ikharo Attah, once said: “The issue of the park policy is very clear; the FCT Administration is very clear on it. The coordinator of the Abuja Metropolitan Management Council, with the director of Parks and Recreation, has clarified the issue. “Minister of the FCT, Malam Muhammad Bello, has given the marching order to implement the park policy and it is clear; from 7 p.m. all parks are to remain closed. That is what the park policy contains. “With the approval of the minister, parks that refuse to close at the stipulated time would be sanctioned. I have received calls from some of them that people want to enjoy after closing from work till deep in the night. “But I say no. The city will have to adjust to the fact that parks close by 7 pm, when it’s dark. Everybody can adjust to it.” Manager of High Stakes Garden, Kabusa, Peter Odoh, said: “All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. People must relax and unwind. It is an interesting business that is helping us to keep body and soul together. “It has its own ups and downs. It booms at night and during weekends. The dry season is preferable. People get distracted during the rainy season. By and large, we are making progress.” As thriving as the venture is, it is causing gridlock in some areas especially Gwarimpa Estate because of the lack of space. During the weekends, motorists are forced to meander and take one way just to escape from the hiccup. A Town Planner, Tunde Adebayo, noted: “Inasmuch as I like the speedy development of Abuja, certain things should be regulated and planned accordingly. “We cannot be having gardens and bars in city like Abuja every corner. It is wrong for people to just set up drinking spots in residential areas and causing gridlock and noise population. It should be monitored. “In some places, you would not be able to pass because of the influx of people either entering or going out of a garden. It should not be so.”