From Abdulrazaq Mungadi, Gombe Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe state has described oppositions of his All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state as bandits who have nothing to offer to the state. The Governor stated this while speaking at the official presentation of an appointment letter to the 1000 newly recruited teachers of secondary school in the state. According to him, “Leaders are problem solvers, not rabble-rousers. Clearly, the political bandits parading as opposition candidates have nothing to offer the good people of Gombe State”. While assuring that his administration is committed to ensuring that the state benefits from effective leadership, Governor Yahaya said, “we must not let those indecent, unstable, incompetent and inexperienced power mongers deceive us with rhetorical fantasies and lies. As the saying goes, talk is cheap, doing is what counts. We are doers, not talkers”. Speaking on the efforts by the administration to transform the education sector of the state, the governor said, “As we are all aware, education is the bedrock on which all progress and development rest. Therefore, any society or nation that seeks transformation, growth, development, and stability must ensure quality and affordable education at all levels. “In order to fulfill our promise to the people of this state, we took unprecedented and aggressive measures to revamp the sector. As a first step, we declared a state of emergency in the sector, followed by a 60% increase in capital allocation in the 2020 and 2021 budgets,” the governor said. He added that in the years under review about 1,327 classrooms were built, renovated, furnished, and equipped. “In addition, computer and science laboratories, sporting and WASH facilities were provided in hundreds of schools throughout the state. Moreover, five secondary schools are being completely renovated, equipped, and upgraded to Mega Colleges. This is adjudged as the biggest infrastructural renewal in primary and secondary schools in the history of Gombe State,” the governor stated.