From Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has expressed disappointment with the leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over  lingering crisis in the party. The governor spoke when the management team of The Sun  Publishing Limited officially presented letter of award to him. He restated that the election that produced the presidential candidate of the party was dogged by fraudulent practices. Wike said if not for his love for the PDP, he would have gone to court to challenge the process, stressing  that no amount of campaign of calumny against him could stop him from speaking the truth. The governor also raised the alarm over the N500 billion budget for the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), which has attracted much pressure on the National Assembly for its approval. Describing the NDDC budget as fraudulent, Wike said political leaders were mounting pressure on the National Assembly to pass it so that they could share it ahead of the general elections. “You know the day NDDC came here, I told them. Sometimes I say should I not be ashamed that I came from the Niger Delta? Everyday, we are talking about exploitation. Who is exploiting who? “Since the inception of NDDC, let them show us an regional project they have embarked upon that changed the landscape of the area. Let them mention one. How does NDDC come to a state and start to construct without the contribution of the state government. Do you know the blueprint of the state? How do you go to a community and start building school? Is the school your own? Who is going to run the school? Why not go to the state and ask the government; what is your priority? What do you want NDDC to do for you in your state? “What are they doing now? NDDC is expecting N500 billion. Go and see the pressure they are mounting on the National Assembly to approve the budget of NDDC because election is on February 25. They have sat down now to butcher N500 billion. Tomorrow, if you come back, nothing is happening in Niger Delta. “If you see the budget of 2022, ask them which governor made input in that budget? Go and see. In the budget, you will see N4 billion for desilting of drainages. So, NDDC has now come to clean gutters in our state? What kind of system is this?” Governor Wike, however,  thanked  The Sun Publishing Limited for the 2022 award, saying that media houses should give awards based on merits. He said the society would get better and move forward when they play their major role as watchdog by making those in positions of authority to account for their works. Earlier, in his presentation, Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief of the Sun Publishing Limited, Mr. Onuoha Ukeh, said Governor Wike was given the award,  ‘Courage in Leadership’,  for proving to be a strong leader by creating strong institutions. He described the governor as an advocate of justice who has a strong voice in the PDP. Ukeh stated: “The governor of Rivers State has proved to be  a strong leader creating strong institutions. “In the time of economic recession and reduced revenue, you created women inheritance, you created roads to community that never had roads, you created law schools.  You have changed the face of Rivers State and restore the glory of Rivers State. “The governor of Rivers State is an advocate of justice, a strong voice in the political party. Meanwhile, Governor Wike has declared that the 2023 general elections would prove to many the strategic political importance of the State. He said the state cannot continue to be a dumping ground where interests of the people are considered inconsequential. He spoke at Elele Civic Centre, venue of the flag-off of construction work on the Elele internal roads in Ikwerre Local Government Area on Monday.