From Uche Usim, and Molly Kilete, Abuja The intervention of one of the Service Chiefs yesterday saved Governor of the  Central Bank of Nigeria, (CBN) Mr. Godwin Emefiele, from arrest upon return to Nigeria from his annual vacation abroad. This is coming at a time the Directorate of State Services (DSS) denied ever storming the CBN headquarters to arrest Emefiele, with the apex bank spokesman saying he had resumed duty. Since Emefiele travelled overseas for his leave, there had been confusion and anxiety, triggered by the DSS’ attempt to get a court warrant to arrest him on allegation of terrorism financing. Daily Sun gathered that the Service Chief had got an approval for the jet that brought Emefiele back to the country to land at the private wing of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, where military men had been positioned. The presence of the military men had prevented any move by the DSS to attempt arresting the CBN governor. Sources revealed, however, that some top officials at the DSS had given the resignation of Emefiele as condition for him to be let off their hook and end the controversy, with pressures mounting for his sack. Meanwhile, the Senate said it is eagerly awaiting the CBN Governor to submit documents relating to the Ways and Means of the apex bank. Competent sources told Daily Sun that senators had vowed not to approve the 2023 budget until they see documents on the CBN loans with which the Federal Government financed budget shortfalls. Statistics showed that the Ways and Means’ debt rose from N17. 5 trillion in December 2021 to N23. 8 trillion in October 2022. To further quell the controversies over the Emefiele’s overseas’ spell, Osita Nwanisobi, CBN Director, Corporate Communications, said the governor proceeded on leave in December 2022 and resumed work on Monday (yesterday). The statement said: “The governor resumed with renewed vigour to perform his duty ahead of the first Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting of the year scheduled for January 23 to 24, 2023. “Mr. Emefiele remains committed to performing the task before him, in line with his oath of office and the policy direction of President Muhammadu Buhari. “While thanking the public for keeping faith with the bank, we urge Nigerians to continue to  support the policies of the bank aimed at ensuring a stable financial system and the Nigerian  economy in general.” Also yesterday, the DSS denied rumours that its operatives stormed the CBN headquarters to effect Emefiele’s arrest. The Public Relations Officer of DSS, Dr. Peter Afunanya, in a statement said: “The attention of the DSS has been drawn to the false news making the round that its operatives invaded the Central Bank of Nigeria and arrested its governor, today 16/1/23 (yesterday). This is fake news and quite misleading.” Emefiele and the DSS have been in court over allegations of terrorism financing, the nation’s secret police seeking court orders to arrest him upon his return to the country from his annual leave. But the FCT High Court in December 2022 declined the prayer and further barred the secret service from arresting, inviting, or detaining Emefiele. The Presidency has kept mum since the DSS-Emefiele face-off started, with no sign about what President Muhammadu Buhari wants to do on the matter. Sources however hinted that pressure is mounting on the Presidency to remove Emefiele from office, even when there has been no proof about the alleged against him.