From Tony Osauzo, Benin The President of Igueben Area Customary Court,  His Honour, Mrs Precious Aigbonoga, was yesterday morning reportedly abducted in Ugoneki, on her way to Court in Igueben Local Government Area of Edo State. The Publicity Secretary of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Festus Usiobaifo, in a press statement, said the NBA was working closely with the Edo State Police Command to ensure she regain her freedom from the kidnappers. “The President of Igueben Area Customary Court, His Honour, Mrs Precious Aigbonoga, was kidnapped on Monday morning around Ugoneki axis, on her way to Court in Igueben Local Government Area, Edo State. “Her Honour is the wife of our Colleague, Mr. Afebu Aigbonoga, PDP Candidate, Etsako West Constituency 1. “The Chairman of the Lion Bar, Chief Nosa Francis Edo-Osagie, is deeply sad by this news and condemns, in strong  terms, the worrisome insensitivity of these bandits in kidnapping Mrs Precious Aigbonoga;  an easygoing, gentle, and hardworking judicial officer. “The executive of NBA is in close touch with the Commissioner of Police, Mohammed Dankwara. By the grace of God Almighty, His Honour shall be rescued unhurt, and the bandits brought to book, Amen. “Let us keep His Honour in our prayers, please”, the said. Edo State Police Publlic Relations Officer (PPRO)Mr. Chidi Nwabuzor, said he was yet to receive the report of the incident. Similarly, a former member of the Edo State House of Assembly, Festus Edughele, was also yesterday morning abducted at Ubiaja on his way to Benin. Last Saturday gunmen  invaded Igueben train station and abducted 32 persons. Meanwhile, the  State Commissioner  for Communication and Orientation, Mr. Chris Nehikhare, has said that six more of the 31 victims kidnapped at the Igueben train station have been rescued. The commissioner disclosed this during a press briefing in Benin City, noting that two more suspects on the wanted list of the police have been arrested as investigation was on to determine their culpability in the kidnap incident. He said, “Six people have been rescued in the last 24 hours. Those who were rescued included a 65-year-old man; a nursing mother and her baby; a six-year-old girl and two siblings :a boy and a girl aged between two and five years old. “These six persons have been rescued and our security forces have continued with the bush combing to arrest other fleeing members of the kidnap gang. I want to reassure Edo people that the government is taking this matter seriously, ensuring that the state is safe for Edo people. “We are asking for information that will lead to the arrest of other kidnappers. Two other suspects have been arrested for their involvement in the kidnapping in Edo Central as they were formerly declared wanted by the police. They are in custody helping the police with relevant information that will lead to the arrest of other members of the gang.” Nehikhare further noted, “this is a sensitive matter and we need to keep the press and the people abreast of the current situation. “I get clearance from security agencies before briefing the press on this issue so as not to compromise their investigation. I am also appealing to Edo people to help with information that will unravelthis kidnap incident.” The Commissioner reassured the families of the victims that the Edo State Government is taking the matterseriously, adding, “We have cordoned off a huge part of the forest as no one knows the forest better than our hunters, and security agencies. “The bush combing operation is ongoing and I am confident that very soon all those kidnapped will be rescued.”