Commander, Amotekun Corps, Ogun State, retired Commissioner of Police, David Ajibola Akinremi, said the corps recently arrested 40 suspected armed robbers, kidnappers and cultists. He vowed that it would be too hot for criminals this year. He said: I have deployed corps on all the highways in the state. We had breakthroughs in 2022, as we raided hideouts of the hoodlums. We chased them out of the state and alerted our sister security agencies. “This new year, we are going to wage war against criminals. We have trained and re-trained our personnel to bridge all lapses. We appreciate the state government for given us operational support to deal with the hoodlums.  We also appreciate the compliments of the vigilance groups and the local hunters. “Amotekun operatives attached to Abeokuta North Local Government, arrested one Mohammed and Abubakar, for conspiracy, kidnapping and armed robbery. The suspects kidnapped a couple and took them to their hideout in the bush. After tying them, they demanded for a ransom of N800,000 from their relatives. “Our men recovered a locally made gun, four cutlasses and other dangerous weapons from the kidnappers. The operatives arrested Busari, Segun and others who robbed victims in Ayegbami Quarters, Agunboye, Ijebu -Igbo. “They had in their possession  carbonized human skulls exhumed from different burial grounds in Agunboye. They sold the human skulls in different places depending on demand. “Also Amotekun  personnel arrested 10 cultists who involved in armed robbery and house breaking in Iperu Remo. We recovered some stolen items like Android phones from them. The suspects are Aremu and Kamorudeen. “We arrested another 10 suspected cultists. They robbed victims coming from church at Ajegunle Junction, Sabo Shagamu. They collected their phones of different types. The suspects are members of Eiye Cult Group. “We have started deploying our operatives to expressways to checkmate the hoodlums who rob passengers on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Ijebu-Ode/Ore Expressway, Ijebu-Ode/Sagamu axis. We have started to raid their hideouts on the expressways ensure the people are safe.”