Kunle Afod Renowned movie director and actor, Kunle Afod, and his wife, Desola, had their white wedding in 2003. However, in a short Instagram post on Tuesday, October 25, 2022, Desola announced the crash of their marriage. According to her, “The good news you wanna hear. I left Kunle Afod.”  The actor is yet to comment as at the time of this report. Gideon Okeke In the same vein, Nollywood actor, Gideon Okeke, who married his longtime girlfriend, Chidera Uduezue, in 2018, also took to his Instagram handle to announce that he had separated from the union that produced two lovely sons. The post reads: “You wouldn’t believe it if I told you that I’m separated from my marriage, right? It is in the interest of clarity and clear conscience that this becomes imperative.” Yewande Adekoya Actress and filmmaker, Yewande Adekoya’s marriage hit the rocks in April 2022. The mother of two, while publicising the end of her marriage, said she had been experiencing emotional abuse for 14 years. Julius Agwu Renowned stand-up comedian, Julius Agwu, got married to Ibiere in 2008. But the marriage managed to survive for 14 years. According to the comedian, he fell sick and broke, and Ibiere abandoned her matrimonial home. It was in 2022. Paul and Anita Okoye PSquare’s Paul Okoye and Anita got married on March 22, 2014. However, the marriage went through troubled waters and was formally dissolved in 2022. Paul and Anita have three children together. Oritsefemi and Nabila Fash In another drama-filled union, star singer, Oritsefemi, and his wife, Nabila Fash, went their separate ways after five years. Nabila had confirmed both of them were separated and heading for divorce during a live video session with popular OAP, Daddy Freeze. Dancers Kaffy and Joseph Ameh Although they officially parted ways in 2021, news of the divorce of professional dancer and instructor, Kafayat Ameh, aka Kaffy, and her husband, Joseph Ameh, filtered in early 2022. In January, Kaffy disclosed in her new podcast episode, ‘JustKaffy’ that she was single but not searching. The dancer revealed that she was bitter in her marriage, and that taking a chance to break up her marriage was to see both parties grow in their different careers. Kalu Ikeagwu and Ijeoma In May, Nollywood star, Kalu Ikeagwu, told an Ikeja High Court that his estranged wife, Ijeoma, allegedly deserted their matrimonial home and prevented him from gaining access to their two children. Ikeagwu, in the suit marked LD/8939HD/2021, sought a dissolution of his six-year-old marriage to Ijeoma, a makeup artist. The British-Nigerian actor also sought full custody of his three-year-old son and 10-year-old stepdaughter. Saint Obi and Lynda In February, news of veteran actor, Obinna Nwafor, aka Saint Obi, divorcing his wife, Lynda Nwafor nee Amobi, was made public. The judge handling the case, Omotayo O. Majekodunmi, issued a bench warrant for her arrest. In a suit filed at the High Court of Ogun State with number HCT/128/2019, the actor accused his wife, Lynda and her brothers, Michael and Chukwumobi Amobi of attempting to kill him. Basket Mouth and Elsie Top comedian, Bright Okpocha, better known as Basket Mouth, announced the end of his 12-year-old marriage to his beautiful wife, Elsie. The father of four made the announcement via his verified Instagram page, where he assured of peacefully co-parenting their children with his wife. The actor, who didn’t give reasons for the divorce, pleaded with Nigerians to respect their privacy.