By Chinyere Anyanwu  The Hass variety of avocado is a nutrient-rich fruit loaded with healthy fats, vitamins, minerals and fibre. The variety, which was recently introduced into the Nigerian market from Mexico and Kenya is easy to cultivate and has the potential to generate over 35,000 jobs by 2027.  This was the submission of a two-year-old movement led by Ambassador Adeniyi Sola Bunmi, the Convener of Gogreen Africa Impact Initiative, which led to the birth of the Avocado Society of Nigeria (ASN) whose patron is former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo.  Adeniyi expressed his growing concern for the lack of interest on the part of the Federal Government to mobilise the workforce towards revenue generation from Hass Avocado. He said, “I see this variety of avocado already thriving in Nigeria and I’m happy I could make this a reality despite the high level of challenges we encountered in the cultivation journey, part of which is importing viable seedlings from countries like Mexico and Kenya. However, we hope to make use of advanced farming techniques in future cultivation.” According to him, the prevalence of avocado in Nigeria is still in the budding mode. Though the local variety can be found in markets all over the country, only big malls and supermarkets can boast of the Hass variety. With continuous awareness for increased attention, there are high expectations that the Hass Avocado – one of the most popular varieties of the avocado fruit – will play a key role in Nigeria’s future. He said the Hass Avocado is a great source of dietary fibre which is necessary for keeping a healthy intestinal tract and helps with weight loss and management. He added that it is also a good source of heart-healthy mono-and polyunsaturated fatty acids, which can help reduce cholesterol levels.  In his words: “Nigeria is experiencing rapid economic growth, which is a key factor driving the increasing demand for avocados. In addition, a growing number of Nigerian farmers, especially members of the Avocado Society of Nigeria, have started cultivating Hass Avocado due to its higher price tag and higher yields. This means that the availability of Hass Avocados in Nigeria is likely to grow in the near future, which should create a strong market.” Adeniyi further noted that, “Hass Avocado tree is able to thrive in the tropical climate of Nigeria and can reach full maturity in as little as three years. This makes it an attractive crop for Nigerian farmers and allows them to more quickly benefit from the crops’ yields.  “Despite its popularity, production of the Hass Avocado in Nigeria has been limited, with the majority of the crop imported from other nations. This has led to some concern in recent years, with worries that supply may not be able to keep up with increasing demand. “A number of initiatives are being pursued by this group of farmers to boost production, including better soil management, improved irrigation and pest control system. It is, therefore, important for existing Hass Avocado farmers to jealously maintain their farms.” The fruit is popular as a snack, ingredient in salads and main dish recipes, and its oil is used for cooking, baking and cosmetic purposes. “The more trees we plant, the more Hass Avocado harvest we get. Let’s follow the plant-a-tree project and plant at least one avocado tree in our compounds. As little as half a plot can make you some good money. “If only the government of Nigeria can show an interest in investing in the development of the avocado industry. It has the potential to generate thousands of jobs for the masses, provide a reliable source of income for farmers and help protect the environment in the long run. The future of Hass Avocado in Nigeria looks promising,” he said.