From Priscilla Ediare, Ado-Ekiti Proprietor of Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti, Afe Babalola, has said Nigeria will continue to recycle bad leaders as long as it operates the 1999 Constitution. He said it was time Nigeria had a new constitution, as the 1999 Constitution had plunged the country into abysmal poverty, unemployment, underfunded education, insecurity and huge external debt. “Unless a new constitution similar to those of 1960 and 1963 constitutions, with necessary amendments, is put in place, none of the aspirants, and, indeed, no angel can save Nigeria from total collapse,’’ he said. He spoke at a press conference at  the university, yesterday, in Ado-Ekiti, on the topic: “Nigeria’s huge external debt and the 1999 Constitution – 2023 in perspective.” Expressing his concerns, Babalola said: “The huge external debt of N42.84 trillion, increasing cases of killing, kidnapping, mismanagement of public funds, unemployment, strikes, poor allocation of funds for education in federal institutions and double digits inflation are some of the ills from the 1999 Constitution which was put in place by the military. “A new constitution is imperative. Our bitter experience since 1999 has taught us that we are in urgent need of a new constitution which should provide for stringent conditions in respect of age, academic qualifications, character and personality, contribution to community at local, state and federal levels as well as family background of candidates for president and national assemblies. “Unless a new constitution similar to the 1960 and 1963 constitutions, with necessary amendments, is put in place, none of the aspirants and, indeed, no angel can save the country from total collapse.” The senior lawyer explained that in addition to the issue of a new constitution, the issue of the huge debt owed by Nigeria should be an issue of concern to any Nigerian aspiring to lead the country. “I believe apart from the new constitution, the huge debt should be an urgent issue to be addressed.” Babalola advised that before Nigeria is formally declared bankrupt, Nigerians who are money bags and those that are patriotic should make voluntary donations through a committee to be set-up by the government for immediate payment of all or a substantial part of this huge debt. “Government should emulate Obasanjo’s example by approaching the creditors either for total forgiveness of the debt or substantial reduction of the debt.”