Founder/General Overseer of World Evangelism Bible Church (WEBIC), Prophet Samson Ayorinde has asserted that in spite of insecurity and other challenges in the country, the presidential election scheduled for next month will hold across the country. At a recent interactive session with journalists in Lagos, the cleric spoke on the Year 2023, his ministry, Nigerian economy and insecurity among other issues. With the spate of attacks on facilities of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), where election materials and offices are torched by arsonists, which has even made the INEC to express anxiety, do you believe the polls slated for next month would hold? God told me that in spite of the attacks, the exercise will hold. The Almighty is in control. He even revealed to me that the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, will win the presidential race. We met during his tenure as governor of Lagos State in June 2005 when I prophesied he would rule this country. That prophecy is coming to be fulfilled this year. I prayed for him. God revealed this to me and His words remain. The will of God must prevail How do you see Nigeria in 2023? I saw God intervening on insecurity which would be contained.  But with prayers, bloodshed shall be reduced and more terrorists will be eliminated. There shall be floods, but it can’t be compared with last year’s experience. There shall be famine but there will be divine intervention. The economy will pick up in the second half of the year. I don’t see Nigeria breaking up in our generation. I remember some foreign governments raised the alarm of impending heightened terror attacks which forced the foreign governments to send non-essential staff home between October and December last year. But with prayers, danger was averted. This is what men of God should be doing, I mean intercessory prayers. Were there any milestones in WEBIC last year? Yes. There were achievements. We organised successful retreats for my ministers at the headquarters and the branches held in Lagos. This was to expose them to rebranding. Leaders, whether in the ministry or corporate world must constantly retrain those in charge. The training arm of the ministry which is Gideonite College and the College of Pastors were upgraded. Students will resume classes this January while the online arm takes off simultaneously. This year’s retreats will begin on February 4th.Also, the multi-million new auditorium is nearing completion Do you see an end to the Russia/Ukraine war this year? There shall be a ceasefire because Russian president Vladimir Putin would have health challenges which will stop him from attacking Ukraine. He will not win the war. Do you have any prayer for Nigerians? God told me there shall be sounds of melody and rejoicing this year. I pray for more blessings and peace to reign in the land. We should get closer to God to enjoy what the Almighty has for us this year. I advise you to get copies of I PROPHESY from any WEBIC branch to pray daily in order to tap into  God’s blessings and protection.