From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja An All Progressives Congress (APC) group under the auspices of North East APC Youth Stakeholders Forum, has declared war against the party’s vice presidential candidate, Kashim Shettima. Briefing newsmen in Abuja on Thursday, the group warned that apart from tge interim measure of withdrawing their support from him, they will unfold a more drastic action against him in the next few days. Chairman of the group, Shaibu Baffa Tilde, who disclosed their position in his address during the briefing, claimed that Shettima’s actions have led to millions of party members leaving in droves. “We are saddened to be in the news for what others will interpret as a negative reason this time, but we are also obligated by our love for our great party, the APC, to make this timely intervention before our party’s fortunes in the region sink. “We do not need to emphasise that this is an injury time for the game because the general election is less than two months away, leaving no room for error, but instead attention must be focused on tightening all loose ends, which is not the case with our party in the northeast. “It is with deep regret and concern that we report that the fortunes of our great party in the Northeast are on the verge of collapse due to the obstinate, careless, and exclusive leadership style of our vice presidential candidate, Kashim Shettima,” they hinted on his sins. Speaking further, the group noted that: “Northeast APC Youth Forum has watched with tears as its many supporters continue to defect to the PDP. Unfortunately, the trend in the Northeast zone is worsening by the day, with Kashim seemingly turning a blind eye to these heinous developments in our party in the region. “We the Youths in the Northeast have lost our Zonal Treasurer from his home state of Borno, Yusuf Shariff Banki, due to his failure to support youth in the region to launch massive mobilization. It is worth noting that Sheriff led over 500,000 youth to the PDP. “As if that wasn’t enough, our Zonal Organizing Secretary, Murtala Gamji of Taraba, led over 200 youth to the NNPP, and our Zonal Women Leader, Amina Manga of Bauchi, led one million women to the PDP. “Of the eight million youth votes we have already mobilized for Bola Ahmed Tinubu, our presidential candidate for the presidential polls, Kashim Shettime has already plundered over three million through his actions with the wave of defections from our party. This is simply unacceptable! Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “In light of this, we urge our party’s vice presidential candidate to immediately reverse his steps and correct his error for the sake of the party, the region, and the teaming youth. “It is on record that this group, then led by it’s current Acting Chairman, Shaibu Baffa Tilde, threw their support behind Shettima and committed massive resources, both human and financial, to ensure he emerged as the APC’s vice presidential candidate. “We do not seek compensation from Shettima, but our resentment stems from his failure to recognize a formidable Youth force of the party that stood by him through thick and thin after realizing his ambition to become reality as vice presidential candidate from the northeast region. “As a result, the Northeast APC Youth Forum wishes to withdraw its unequivocal support for Shettima. Our actions should not be misinterpreted, but rather judged by our affection for our dear party. “While we intend to take our next steps regarding his candidacy in the coming days, we would like to express our unwavering support for our presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, and the APC. We will continue to work for the advancement and victory of our beloved party in the upcoming general elections,” they promised.