By Christopher Oji and Molly Kilete, Abuja The Police Service Commission (PSC) has said there would be no extension for officers due for retirements. The commission has therefore, ordered  Deputy Inspector Generals (DIGs), AIGs, CPs,and others  due  for  retirement to go. The commission said that there was an institutional succession plan in Nigeria Police, and that those  proceeding on retirement would not affect the conduct of the February 25, and March 11 elections. It was however, silent on weather or not the Inspector- General of Police (IGP), should equally proceed on retirement alongside the affected officers. The Commission assured Nigerians that there would be no  vacuum in the hierarchy of the police with the touted retirement of many  senior police officers. It said it took the  decision to rigidly uphold the provisions of the law which stipulates that a serving public officer, whether in the police or in any other Government Agency, must exit the service at the age of 60 or having served for a period of 35 years. The Commission said it would not encourage the subversion of the laws guiding entry and exit in to the Nigeria Public Service, adding that the retiring senior police officers are not indispensable, and that their exit would not in any way or manner affect the success of the 2023 general election. The PSC is the statutory Government Executive Body with the Constitutional mandate to recruit, promote, dismiss ,and exercise disciplinary control over persons holding offices in the Nigeria Police Force, except the Inspector -General of Police. A statement by the PSC Head, Media and Public Relations, Mr. Ikechukwu Ani, said: “The Commission has watched with keen interest the conversation in the Media on whether retiring senior Police Officers’ tenure should be enlongated or not and whether such retirements would affect the 2023 election security. “Rising from a Management Meeting on Monday, January 23rd 2023 in Abuja, the Commission said the on-going campaign for the extension of the tenures of some Deputy Inspectors General( DIGs),   Assistant Inspectors General (AIGs), Commissioners ( CPs), and other senior Police Officers was an unnecessary distraction,and an affront on all  the existing laws in the country guiding entry and exit in the public service. “The Commission took a decision that it will not extend the tenures of the retiring senior Police Officers, stressing that even when requested, it can not do so as it is against all existing  laws, Police Act, Police Service Commission Act and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria” Ani noted that the police have capable men and women who should be encouraged to step into the vacancies that would be created by the exiting officers,” PSC  assured Nigerians that there is an institutional succession plan in the Force especially with the current injection of 10,000 Constables and several other thousands of cadet ASPs from the Police Academy every year. “The Commission assured Nigerians that there will be no  vacuum in the hierarchy of the Police with the touted retirement of hundreds of senior Police Officers. “It took a decision to rigidly uphold the provisions of the law which stipulates that a serving public Officer, whether in the Police or in any other Government Agency, must exit the service at the age of 60 or having served for a period of 35 years. “The Commission said it would not encourage the subversion of the laws guiding entry and exit in to the Nigeria Public Service, adding that the retiring senior Police Officers are not indespensable and that their exit would not in any way or manner affect the success of the 2023 general election”.