From Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha The Spiritual Director of the Holy Ghost Adoration Ministry, Uke, Anambra State, Rev. Fr. Emmanuel Obimma has said that the reason he is supporting Peter Obi and the Labour Party is because of his proven capacity, competence, credibility and integrity. Fr. Ebube Muonso, who encouraged Nigerians not to be disturbed by the country’s present situation, urged youths, women and all people of goodwill to get their PVCs and vote in the direction that will bring hope and recovery. The cleric, in his new year message at the Holy Ghost Adoration Ministry, Uke in Anambra state noted that the 2023 general election in Nigeria is very crucial for the attainment of around recovery for Nigeria. He predicted that Nigeria will witness favour, happiness and recovery in the year 2023 Speaking on the theme, “2023: My Year of Wealth Explosion,”, “The year 2023 is full of promise for Nigeria. It will usher in happiness and recovery. The happiness and recovery, however, will be determined by the outcome of the 2023 general election. Nigerians must take their destinies into their hands. “Power belongs to God, and he gives it to whoever He likes. So, Nigerians must pray fervently that God will bless the country with a president that will facilitate this recovery; by using the wealth of the nation to work for the people. “Nigeria is sinking. Youths are leaving the country in droves in search of greener pastures, because of bad economy; whereas Nigeria is highly blessed with abundant resources.” Holding hands with the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Mr. Peter Obi, who attended the all-night programme, Ebube Muonso revealed that the support the ministry is extending to him is based on his capacity to deliver results. “Nigeria and Nigerians, if you would listen to your prophet, behold the man that will salvage this nation. He will take this country to the land of promise. We’re not supporting Obi because he is an Igbo man; we’re not supporting him because it is his turn; not even because he is an adorer. We’re supporting Peter Obi and the Labour Party because of his proven capacity, competence, credibility and integrity. Let Nigerians hear me now: behold the man God has appointed at a time like this to liberate this nation. He who has ears, let him hear.” The priest, who criticized those, especially Igbo people working against Obi’s presidential bid, further urged Nigerians not to listen to them. “Peter Obi is the hope Nigeria has. Don’t listen to those saying that Obi will not win – they are not God. Soludo and Arthur Eze in particular, should leave Peter Obi alone. The governor should focus on the myriad of problems bedeviling Anambra State presently. He should address insecurity, and should give Anambra people the Dubai/Taiwan state he promised.” While saying that any Igbo man that refuses to queue into the OBIdient Movement is cursed already, Ebube Muonso said that some prominent Nigerians who stand against Obi are only protecting their loots, and their oil wells. The priest, accompanied by other clerics, prayed for God’s protection over Obi throughout his campaigns and political journey. Speaking, Peter Obi, who attended the programme in the company of the Senatorial candidate of the LP in Anambra Central, Senator Victor Umeh, amid thunderous applause from the congregation, thanked the Adoration Ministry for their continued support and prayers. He called on Nigerians to understand the dire need to use the February 25, 2023 election to right every wrong in the country.One attachment• Scanned by Gmail