From Wilson Okereke, Afikpo  The lawmaker representing Ikwo/Ezza South Federal Constituency of Ebonyi State in the National Assembly, Chinedu Ogah, has boasted that he would willingly give up his position, if any of his counterparts in Ebonyi could outshine him in provision of benefits to the constituents.  Speaking at his country home, Item Amagu in Ikwo Local Government Area while he celebrated Christmas with his constituents on December 26, 2022, Ogah reiterated his unwavering commitment to their welfare.  As it was customary, he used the opportunity to distribute various empowerment items to hundreds of people: “The mammoth crowd that is here needs assistance and as their representative, I will ensure that everyone goes home with at least a bag of rice, they are here because they want to eat and I will provide them with food.  “I’m equally urging them to vote for APC at all levels starting from Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu being the presidential candidate of our party to the State House of Assembly aspirants, you can recall that when you cried for road, water, hospital and employment opportunities, that you were provided with all these and I thank God that the Federal Government has been kind to us and I have also attracted somethings for myself to complement the effort of the state government.”  Ogah further appealed that everyone should avoid acts capable of causing violence while the politicians should as well do the needful by caring for their people in their various areas adding that the sea of heads at the programme had shown his level of significance to the people: “These are the people who determined what I am and if they withdraw their mandate, I will simply come back home, thus there is need to feel their impulse by dinning and dancing with them.”  He appealed to them to vote for him and other candidates of his party, All Progressives Congress (APC) in this year’s general elections.  Notable persons from the state and beyond attended the event. Chairman of Ikwo Local Government Council, Sunday Nwankwo, described the event as a milestone achievement targeted at giving succour to the less privileged, stating that his office would partner with the programme next time.  Mrs Monica Nwali and Miss Monica Nweke, suspected to be suffering from down syndrome, both received brand new motorcycles. They prayed for abundant blessings upon their benefactor.