From Chijioke Agwu, Abakaliki There was tension, yesterday, in the camp of the opposition Peoples Democratic party (PDP) in Ebonyi State following the delisting of the party’s candidates by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) from the list of candidates for the governorship and National Assembly elections. A check by Daily Sun on INEC’s website showed that the names of the governorship and deputy governorship candidates of the party, Ifeanyi Ọdịi and Igwe Nwagu were conspicuously missing in the updated list. Also the names of the three senatorial candidates of the party, Sam Egwu (Ebonyi North), Laz Ogbe (Ebonyi Central) and Ama Nnachi (Ebonyi South) were missing from the list. Five out of the six House of Representatives candidates were also not included in the updated list. Those whose names were missing are Idu Igariwey (Afikpo North/South), Jerry Obasi (Ọhaozara/Onicha/Ivo), Ogbonna Nwanne (Ikwo/Ezza South), Chukwuma Ofoke (Abakaliki/Izzi), and Victor Aleke (Ebonyi/Ohaukwu). In the updated list dated December 22, 2022, INEC listed Emmanuel Nwite as the candidate of PDP for Ishielu/Ezza Federal North constituency in place of Obinna Nwachukwu who was listed as the candidate in the earlier list released in September. Also, the commission listed, Henry Udeh as the senatorial candidate of the Labour Party (LP) for Ebonyi South instead of Linus Okorie who emerged in a run-off primary conducted late last year. The amended list which was signed by Secretary of Commission, Rose Oriaran-Anthony, was published on the commission’s website. The commission explained that the updated list was pursuant to various court orders which the commission was bound to abide with. “The commission published the final list of candidates for presidential, senatorial and House of Representatives elections on September 20, 2022 and governorship and state House of Assembly elections on October 4, 2022 in accordance with the provisions of Section 32 of the Electoral Act, 2022 and the timetable and schedule of activities for the 2023 general election,” INEC said in the statement accompanying the new list. INEC noted that after the said publication, the commission was served orders of court in respect of the nomination of candidates for governorship, senatorial, House of Representatives and state House of Assembly elections. “It is worthy of note that the list of candidates was amended in Amendment No. 1 published on the commission’s website on November 3, 2022 pursuant to court orders “By virtue of the provision of Section 287 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), the commission is bound to enforce the orders of court on the nomination of candidates by political parties in the affected constituencies” “Consequently, the lists of candidates in respect of the attached senatorial districts and federal constituencies, governorship and state House of Assembly elections are amended pursuant to the orders of court served on the commission as at December 21, 2022 for upload on the commission’s website,” INEC said. When contacted. the state Legal Adviser of the party, Mudi Irhenede, said he was not aware of the updated list and declined to comment on it. He said:” You are just telling me about it right now. I am not aware. Let me find out.” Also, spokesperson to Odi, the PDP governorship candidate, Abịa Onyike, also declined comment on the new list saying he was not aware of its existence.