From Godwin Tsa, Abuja South South Buhari Support Group has cautioned against assault on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele, over alleged terrorism financing. Group Coordinator, John Israel, in a statement, yesterday, said the warning became necessary following an alleged lot to launch coordinated attacks and smear campaigns against Emefiele and President Muhammadu Buhari’s backed CBN policies by pro-Department of State Services (DSS) sponsored groups. The group described as unthinkable and shameful that the DSS would casually accuse Emefiele of ‘financing terrorism’. The South South group recalled the manner in which the former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Walter Onnoghen, and several other top public office holders from the region were scandalously removed from office. While cautioning security agencies to ensure their duties are carried out dispassionately and professionally, the group warned that if anything untoward happens to  Emefiele, there would be consequences.  “Despite recent court ruling, we heard they want to come up with plan to fabricate another allegation in order to arrest Emefiele and force him to resign. This made this warning necessary, as we approach the 2023 general election. What is the evidence that Emefiele is involved in terrorism financing? If the allegations against the CBN governor are genuine, why didn’t the DSS present its findings to the President for consideration and necessary action? “It is common knowledge that Emefiele has been carrying out Mr. President’s directives and instructions religiously. The CBN governor has been doing everything to salvage the national economy, with several intervention schemes in agriculture and Small and mid-size enterprises, etc, to ensure individuals, households and businesses across all sectors of the economy, received support to sustain their operations and livelihoods, especially during COVID, and even post-COVID, era. We won’t tolerate any plot to harm him or undermine Buhari’s peaceful transition plan,” the group said in the statement.