By Chinyere Anyanwu                  The Omor Kingdom in Ayamelum Local Government Area of Anambra State has expressed its readiness to tap into the proposed smart agriculture project by Governor Charles Soludo. A royal father, Igwe Dr. Chris Oranu Chidume, Eze Igulube, Eze-Anaukwu of Omor Kingdom, who disclosed this during the ‘Omor-in-Focus,’ a ceremony that marks the beginning of annual Ofala celebration, noted that the smart agriculture project would not only boost the productivity of the community but also increase the GDP of the state and the country tremendously. The royal father also called on the government to provide the community with a College of Agriculture, as there is no University of Agriculture in the state, adding that the whole of Ayamelum LGA is an agrarian society. While urging the state government to assist the community on infrastructural development, he pointed out that constant supply of electricity, road infrastructure and agriculture training centres would go a long way in reducing post-harvest losses recorded by the farming community. He stated that the premium placed on community development has been the driving force that keeps propelling every Omor indigene to continue to contribute towards every project of development initiated by different age groups and indigenes. According to him, “if the government should address these issues, Omor will not only be an economic hub but will contribute immensely to the GDP of the state and Nigeria at large. Steady electricity supply for the next five years will promote rapid industrialisation.  Omor is a resilient people that will take loan and invest in farming and during harvest flooding damages it. Omor people are ready to leverage smart agriculture giving the necessary infrastructure.” Also speaking at the event, Chief Amobi Chiamogu stated that the community records unprecedented post-harvest losses, calling on the government to provide storage facilities. “During rainy season, our people record enormous post-harvest losses, so we are calling on the government to provide us with storage facilities. We are also calling on the government to provide us with access roads. When the regular natural disaster, which is flooding, occurs and the road is submerged, the people of the area are cut off from other communities in Anambra State. It becomes impossible for farmers to evacuate their farm produce. “So we are appealing to the government to consider building another bridge across Ezu River from Igbariam axis to provide a permanent solution to the post-harvest losses.” If the government can dredge and pile up sand of about 20 feet from Anaku end and erect a bridge, it will go a long way in solving the problem. With this, our people can survive flooding without losing much of their farm produce. This is because during the flooding period, we can take the alternative route to evacuate our agricultural produce to markets and processing zones.”