From Isaac Anumihe, Abuja Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The governor of Kaduna State,  Mallam Nasir Ahmed El-rufai has  pledged to support the families of slain officers and men of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) who paid the supreme price in the course of protecting miners and mining sites in the state The support, he said, is  to cushion the effects of the hardship that the loss of their breadwinners may have created. El-rufai made the pledge when he played host to the Commandant General (CG) of NSCDC, Dr Ahmed Abubakar Audi  at the Sir Kashim Ibrahim Government House, Kaduna, where he condoled with the CG on the deaths of the gallant men who died in active service. He sympathised with their loved ones left behind and the NSCDC family, promising continuous support in terms of logistics, operational equipment and working tools to improve its operational services. The governor expressed satisfaction with the performance of the corps, especially in the protection of critical assets and infrastructure in the state, citing the mining sector as significant to the growth of the nation’s economy. He said that the activities of bandits and incidences of attacks on innocent citizens have become so worrisome. Therefore, to enhance the closeness of security services to the grassroots and accessibility to the people, the governor said that  he will direct all local government chairmen in the state to build more outposts for the corps in their LGAs He commended the CG for bringing about transformational changes in the corps, like the establishment of the Special Female Squad, which is driving the Safe Schools Initiative, among other efforts. The NSCDC helmsman,  thanked El-rufai for his magnanimity in remembering the bereaved families. He commended his heart of kindness and humane personality even as a governor with loads of state issues in mind, adding that the bereaved families will be grateful for this kind gesture. In a statement signed by  the Deputy Commandant of the corps, Olusola Odumosu, the CG  also appreciated El-rufai for more outposts he promised to build for the corps in Kaduna State, stating that the gesture will aid easy communication, reinforcement of personnel and reduce response time to emergencies. The CG stated that the governor’s support is coming at the right time because, in order to improve the operational activities of the corps in the state, he already approved the creation of additional eight divisional offices, three area commands and more outposts in the state. Audi assured the governor of the corps’ determination and commitment to doing its best in securing lives and protecting critical assets and infrastructure in the state without compromise. He promised to invest in adequate training and retraining of personnel by organising more refresher courses that will help upscale the skills, prepare, equip, and properly position the personnel well for undertaking different security assignments. The Commandant General was accompanied by the NSCDC Zone B Commander, ACG Muhammed Lawal Haruna;  Kaduna State Commandant, Idris Yahaya Adah;  newly deployed Lagos State Commandant, Usman Alfadarai and Akwa Ibom State Commandant, Dr Yusuf Imam as well as the Director of Public Relations of the Corps, Deputy Commandant Olusola Odumosu and other senior Officers.