We cannot get tired of dealing with the moral issues arising from the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) challenge. It’s a challenge, indeed, because it is an abhorrent sexual practice forbidden by most religions and decent moral codes all over the world, until recently. Even in nature, mating involves two folks of the opposite sex, not same sex. Same-sex intercourse, marriage or any type of amorous relationship, is an aberration, something from base human instinct. The promoters of LGBTQ say it’s an orientation, a human rights issue and lifestyle to which they are entitled. And to underscore this point, Wwestern nations have begun to legalize it. They didn’t stop there. They have begun to impose economic sanctions on nations that punish those involved in any type of sodomy. This raises the question: is LGBTQ a medical problem for those who practice it, possibly because they are born that way? Is this sexual orientation a matter of preference or a lifestyle one chooses for some reasons? These are questions to be answered by everyone. Can someone decide to be gay or lesbian because they choose to be or is it a compelling necessity because of a natural inclination or emotional makeup? We need to understand all these issues in their proper context. The western nations and their powerful media, who are at the forefront of promoting LGBTQ, need to tell us why the legal response to this practice has changed dramatically from prosecution to protection and promotion within a span of 30 years. For the prohibition of homosexuality, lesbianism, bestiality and all forms of sodomy in virtually all nations derived from the doctrine of the Bible, the rule of faith propagated for centuries by western evangelists during the global crusades to convert the world to Christianity. Other religions also forbid sodomy by whatever name called. The constitutions of most western nations did not permit sexual practices we now classify as LGBTQ, until recently. What really happened? What led to this sudden change in attitude? Is it unbelief, rebellion or satanism? The more we look at this matter, the more embarrassing it becomes. There’s hardly anything happening to we humans, in the area of birth defects, that we do not see in animals. Indeed, it’s common knowledge that new drug experiments are first carried out on animals because they are the closest species to human beings. Animals feel pretty much the same way we do. It is when animals tolerate new dugs that humans begin to use them. When I recently began my poultry business, I was surprised to see that rabbits, goats and other livestock respond to some of the drugs that we use. It follows, therefore, that we have similar feelings, to some extent. Yet, it has never been reported that animals anywhere, from the dawn of creation to this moment, were or are involved in same-sex practices. If indeed homosexuality is an orientation acquired at birth, scientific enquiry should have reported it. Moreover, animals would have exhibited such bizarre sexual behaviour randomly around the world. We would have been seeing same-sex mating all over the zoos and homes where millions of domestic animals are nurtured. Since there’s no medical evidence anywhere to prove that the urge to engage in homosexuality or lesbianism is natural to some, it can be reasonably assumed that the practice is a choice or lifestyle option for those who engage in it. Everyone has a right to live the way they choose, if their choice is not harmful to others, morally, physically or materially. LGBTQ is offensive to our moral sensibilities because it is paranormal, queer, dirty, disgusting and debasing to the dignity of man.More importantly,it is a direct challenge to the authority and sovereignty of Almighty God as the moral lawgiver and ruler of the universe. LGBTQ derives from man’s base instincts, corruption, immorality and rebellion against God and society. Those who promote it or engage in it are deviants who are trying to turn the world upside down and plunge society into moral chaos and disorder. It must be resisted by decent members of the world community to save us from divine indignation and the type of judgement that befell Sodom and Gomorrah. LGBTQ folks are sick, aberrant and morally repugnant, needing help to return to normalcy. We cannot accept the new reign of moral terror by western nations, which are threatening to punish others who reject same-sex marriage and the ludicrous practices of the lost generation called LGBTQ. Christian leaders should unite with other well-meaning, like-minded, morally upright leaders around the world to attack this evil. To be passive or silent in the face of evil is to condone it. When former United States President, Barack Obama, sounded out President Muhammadu Buhari during a meeting at the White House about same -sex marriage, he rejected the proposal outright. Buhari made it clear that it was against our culture, beliefs and religion. And that Nigeria would not accept LGBTQ. Gladly, many African leaders have spoken out against this obnoxious practice, even in the face of sanctions by the West. No Arab or Muslim nation would ever tolerate same-sex marriage or any form of sodomy. In fact, Islamic nations punish sodomy by death without an option of a fine. That shows how serious a crime it is in those nations. Our youth should never be allowed to embrace this evil, which is being promoted and legalized in the West. God will not forgive us if we allow our children to follow this latest fad in immorality, coming from the so-called civilised nations of Europe and America, where LGBTQ is increasingly gaining more popularity, influence and power. Whatever influence they may exert on the polity, it still does not make them right. Evil cannot become good because the multitude say so. The struggle against LGBTQ continues.   •Ayodeji, author, pastor and life coach, can be reached on 09059243004 (SMS, WhatsApp and email: ladiayodeji@yahoo.com only)