By Merit Ibe      Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, M.P. Masterpiece Nigeria Limited, producer of Skirt blended brandy and Kubanah Whiskey,  Chief Emeka Ike,  has urged the government to support local manufacturers with conducive environment for economic growth. Ike said if Nigeria’s production processes are not revitalised, the country will not develop and its GDP will not grow.” The CEO, who said  all citizens of the country must join hands to fix the country,  lamented that industries in Nigeria are still battling  with epileptic power supply which has forced most of them to spend profits on diesel, thereby struggling to pay salaries. “Most companies have been forced to downsize, pushing many into the labour market, thereby increasing the number of  unemployed. “If government can support industries with power, drastically, unemployment will be reduced and more hands will be engaged in production.  The issue of power supply has forced a lot of industries out of the country to neighbouring countries since they couldn’t cope with the cost of production here. Some of the indigenous industries had gone extinct.” He also called on government to address the issue of  multiple taxation, cost of clearing goods at ports, transportation system, forex issue, policies, insecurity among others, saying when these challenges are addressed, definitely, industries will pick up, more will spring up, foreign investors will begin to come and the economy will improve. Some of us that believe that Nigeria has what it takes to be great industrial nation are pleading with government to address these issues for a better economy.” He empahssied the need for a conducive environment that would birth new industries, create job opportunities and support the existing ones to grow.  “When this happens, it is another means of fighting hunger and poverty in Nigeria. When jobs are created for the citizens and they earn salaries, hunger and poverty is reduced in many families.” Ike, who through the production of Skirt blended brandy and Kubanah Whiskey, the latest of his production created job opportunities for Nigerians especially youths said, he believes in the use of local content for production processes and Nigeria has what it takes to become highly industrialised and qualify for the commonwealth of nation. His Skirt blended brandy and Kubanah Whisky have been Nigerian’s first choice in the market and it has been competing favourable since he ventured into the production of whisky in 2015. “All over the world, proper and adequate support of industries by government is what causes industrial and economic developments in any given environment. Visionary leaders focus on this to bring about rapid national growth, development and as well attain global competitiveness, and enshrine such country in the Commonwealth of Nations. “Following this, government of any country needs to support, protect production process by providing conducive environment that guarantees optimal operation for industrialists. “However, every producer needs steady power supply to thrive in business. Well planned transportation system is important to aid producers convey goods from area of production to the marketplace. Again, multiple taxation, custom duties, forex, insecurity etc. must be looked into by government in order to secure our industrial sector in Nigeria. Presently, the manufacturing sector is operating in unconducive environment with some unfriendly policies