From Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, has declared that the 2023 general election in the state would be a crucial moment that the electorate will use to decide against those who hate the state. The governor said the election would be a fight to finish and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state is going to win at the end of the day. Wike spoke at the Local Government Campaign Flag-off rally of the Rivers State PDP that held at Felix Obuah Pavilion, Omoku Town in Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local Government Area (ONELGA) on Monday. The Rivers governor emphasised that at previous times when PDP went into election it won the governorship, senatorial, House of Representatives and State of Assembly seats, and that in the forthcoming election, the situation would not be different. Wike explained that when Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni,  Abua/Odual, Ahoada East, Ahoada West local Government Areas of the State experienced flooding last year, the State was abandoned to its fate. “That is how you know those who hate Rivers State, that is how you know those who love us. If you hate Rivers State, we will not give you our vote. We will only give our vote to those who love Rivers State. You have to listen to your leaders through the DG (director general) of the campaign. They will come back to you, sit you down and tell you where we are heading to. It is a fight to finish. Do not be afraid. We are going to win at the end of the day. You know that we have always won. We will continue to win.  We have never failed in anything we have told you. Success has always been with us. God has been with us. This time is not going to be different. God will continue to lead us.” Wike explained that on arrival in Omoku Town for the rally, they visited the Oba who gave them his blessings. “Oba has done the traditional thing by blessing us and telling us, go to the field, my people are there; they will be with you, they will stay with you and we have seen it today.” Governor Wike urged the people not to listen to candidates and leaders of other political parties who may come to them to solicit their votes. He pointed out that such persons failed them when they had the opportunity to fulfil promises they made and to deliver development projects to them. In his speech, Siminialayi Fubara, the PDP governorship candidate, recounted the successes of the Wike’s administration, which he pledged to  consolidation if elected.