Former Nigerian President, elder statesman and global citizen, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, is well known for his bluntness and speaking truth to power without caring whose ox is gored. The former military leader does not suffer fools gladly and he is probably one Nigerian who does not pretend on an issue or succumb to blackmail. I had said it before and will still say it again without any fear of contradiction that Chief Obasanjo remains one of the most patriotic leaders Nigeria has ever produced, whether as a military leader or as a civilian president. Obasanjo is nationalistic, in and out of office. He has a wealth of experience about Nigeria, Africa and the world. That is why he is being consulted widely in Nigeria, Africa and elsewhere. He is one of the best leaders Africa has produced. Obasanjo is a courageous soldier, statesman and an intellectual. He has authored so many books, including My Command, Nzeogwu and the My Watch and others. He wrote so many letters to past and present Nigerian leaders on the affairs of the country and proffering solutions. His torrent of letters has generated a book, The Letterman, written by Musikilu Mojeed, which was launched recently in Abuja. At old age, Obasanjo went to National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN) and read Theology up to PhD level. That is no mean achievement. Obasanjo has reached a stage that his words cannot be waved aside or dismissed as worthless or irrelevant as some commentators are doing now following the Sunday endorsement of the Labour Party (LP) standard bearer, Peter Obi, in the February 2023 presidential poll. Before Obasanjo’s endorsement, the Afenifere Leader, Pa Ayo Adebanjo, has equally endorsed Peter Obi for the exalted job in the country because of Obi’s antecedents, character, leadership ability and pan-Nigeria vision, among other factors, which include the need for equity, unity and political inclusion of all Nigerians. In the letter entitled: “My appeal to all, particularly young Nigerians,” Obasanjo wrote: “I am constrained to write this letter to all Nigerians, friends of Nigeria globally as well as our development partners because of the gravity, responsibility and implications of the collective decisions Nigerians, both young and old, will be making within the next two months.”  Obasanjo did not leave his reader in doubt about the subject of his letter, which dwelt on the 2023 election, and those he addressed it. He also made a fair, cogent and objective assessment of our past seven years as a nation under the APC administration of President Muhammadu Buhari thus: “The last seven and a half years have no doubt been eventful and stressful years for many Nigerians. We have moved from frying pan to fire and from mountaintop to the valley. Our leaders have done their best, but their best has turned out to be not the best for Nigeria and Nigerians at home and abroad. For most Nigerians, it was hell on earth.” In the above passage, Obasanjo spoke for millions of Nigerians who live below $1.09 per day. He spoke for 103 million Nigerians said to be multi-dimensionally poor due to bad leadership. The former president spoke for millions of marginalized Nigerian men, women and youths, who have been impoverished and excluded permanently from Nigeria’s politics and development. Obasanjo spoke for over 20 million Nigeria’s out-of-school children made illiterate by the warped Nigerian socio-economic system that thrives on transactional politics and patronage where merit does not count. We operate a system that rewards mediocrity and kills meritocracy with impunity. Obasanjo spoke for millions of Nigerian youths consigned to perpetual unemployment by the inequitable federal system we operate. He was concerned with the plight of Nigerian youths whose aim for survival and better existence is to leave the country at the slightest opportunity, the Japa generation. Obasanjo spoke for thousands of Nigerian medical doctors, nurses and other healthcare professionals who migrated to the United Kingdom, United States, Saudi Arabia, Canada and other countries to work in decent environments where their services are better appreciated but feel homesick about the underdevelopment and ruination of the country by bad leaders.  He spoke for thousands of Nigerian university teachers whose salaries for the eight months they were on strike, were not paid in obedience to obnoxious labour laws, and in an administration that does not obey court orders. Obasanjo’s letter is very detailed that only a few sections need be quoted in this article. The letter touched on all aspects of our national history, including civilian rule, coups, counter coups, the Nigerian civil war and emergence of ethnic warriors and freedom agitators; and called for a change of attitude towards one another. Obasanjo endorsed Obi because: “None of the contestants is a saint, but when one compares their character, antecedent, their understanding, knowledge, discipline and vitality that they can bring to bear and the great efforts required to stay focused on the job, particularly, looking at where the country is today and with the experience on the job that I personally had, Peter Obi, as a mentee, has an edge.” The former president said other good things about Peter Obi’s candidature, which some prominent Nigerians have identified. In a political season, it is expected that Obasanjo’s endorsement of Peter Obi will naturally attract some applause and some jeers from some sections of the country. In as much as some commentators are not in tune with Obasanjo’s endorsement of Peter Obi, they should allow the former president be and hold his opinion. Those in APC and PDP should not vilify him or describe his endorsement of Obi as worthless simply because the pendulum did not swing in their favour. If it had favored them, they would celebrate it with fanfare. They would feast on it for days and weeks and even months before the poll. They would capitalize on it and make it hug the headlines. They would not call Baba names or call his stewardship to question. They would hail him as the living Oracle and the seer and sage of our time. While it is true that Chief Obasanjo has one permanent voter card and can cast only one vote during the February presidential election, Obasanjo also has followers and people who still listen to him. His opinion in a matter like this must not be dismissed as nothing or as having no electoral value. Those crucifying Obasanjo and blaming him for every Nigerian problem from 1999 till the present should go back to history and judge him objectively. Obasanjo have his faults, but he accepts his mistakes. He does not shy away from national duties. Obasanjo’s message in his Sunday letter to Nigerians is very significant for so many reasons. Obasanjo, like other Nigerian patriots in Afenifere, Southern and Middle Belt Forum and other progressives from the North are conversant with the import of Obasanjo’s message and the unity of Nigeria and its future. Therefore, those crucifying Obasanjo should better look at the significance of his letter and why he endorsed Peter Obi and his reasons for doing so. They must understand that the message is more important than the messenger. The message is what should engage their attention and not the messenger. Despite some criticisms from political opponents that trailed Obasanjo’s endorsement of Peter Obi, elder statesman and the national leader of the Pan Niger Delta Forum PAN-DEF, Chief Edwin Clark, and Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State have joined Obasanjo to endorse Peter Obi for the 2023 poll. Pa Edwin Clark had in his message entitled: “Peter Obi, my choice for the 2023 presidential election” endorsed Peter Obi because of his “unwavering commitment to reactivation of our ports, development of blue economy and maritime sector, and investment in gas sector, and development of modular refineries.” It is likely that more endorsements will follow in the days and weeks ahead. Since the 2023 election is a defining moment for Nigerians to choose credible leaders, they must seize the opportunity to elect the best leader for the country. It is not about ethnicity or religion or my turn or your turn, it is about integrity and ability to do the job. Therefore, it is the turn of all Nigerians to reclaim the country and make it great again by electing credible and visionary leaders.