The increasing violence in the South East region with less than two months to the 2023 general election is ominous. The growing insecurity in the region, whether it is politically motivated or not, must be ruthlessly tackled before the South East degenerates to another war zone in the country. It is sad that in virtually all the five states in the region, none can be said to be truly secure. Unfortunately, the recurring bloodbath and destruction of private and public property have become the order of the day in the once peaceful region. The perpetrators of the heinous criminality had attacked offices and personnel of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), as well as, security agents in the region. Before the New Year, some people were killed and many houses burnt in Imo, Anambra and Ebonyi states. On January 2, 2023, heavily armed gunmen attacked the convoy of former governor of Imo State, Chief Ikedi Ohakim, and killed four of his police details. The attack took place at Ehime Mbano Local Government Area of the state. Ohakim, who escaped narrowly, had his backup vehicle attacked, leading to the death of the four policemen. On the same day Ohakim was attacked, the President-General of Obosi Community, in Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State, Ike Okolo, was shot dead by gunmen. Okolo was shot inside his sport utility vehicle in a petrol station. Similarly, in Nodu Okpuno, near Awka, Anambra State, assailants killed four persons in a compound in the community. Preliminary reports indicated that the gunmen had pursued someone into the compound and opened fire on the four hapless victims. The assailants reportedly took off after killing the victims. Two days later, hoodlums struck at Uli Community located in the southern district of Anambra State, torching the Anambra Vigilante Service (AVS) office in the town and killing a member of the security outfit. In Ebonyi State, gunmen killed the wife of Oyeku Kalu, the Commander of Ebubeagu Security Outfit in Afikpo-South Local Government Area of the state. The assailants also set Kalu’s house ablaze during the attack. Enugu and Abia states were not spared of such security breaches. Before the recent bloody attacks, gunmen had unleashed fear and destruction on the residents of the South East at various times. Late last year, the Senator representing Anambra South District, Ifeanyi Ubah, was attacked at Enugwu-Ukwu in Njikoka Local Government of Anambra State. Though he escaped unhurt, some members of entourage, including security aides, were killed. In all the attacks on INEC facilities and officials in almost all the states in the region, Imo State remains the worst hit. Specifically, INEC offices in Ihitte-Uboma, Orlu and Owerri had been torched on many occasions. The renewed violence in the region has affected the collection of Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs). There are fears that the growing violence in the East will hamper the conduct of the 2023 elections if it is not tackled now. We call on the federal and state governments to muster the political will to check the rising violence in the South East region before it becomes uncontrollable. Criminal elements and armed gangs should not be allowed to continue to escalate the violence in the region. The Federal Government must rise to its constitutional responsibility of protecting life and property. That is why the primary purpose of government is the security and welfare of the people.  On no account should this function be abdicated to armed gangs under any guise. There is need to assure the people of their safety in the zone. The insecurity in the South East is a threat to the 2023 general election as well as the corporate existence of the country. It is also a serious threat to the socio-economic wellbeing of the people of the region. No individual or groups should be allowed to hold the region to ransom. Therefore, we urge the governors of the five South East states to stop paying lip service to the security situation in the region. They should set aside their political differences and come forth with concrete plans to ensure that the zone is safe. The Nigeria Police Force and other security agencies in the South East should henceforth be adequately equipped and mobilised to perform their functions effectively. Let the governors and other stakeholders in the region work together to tackle the rising insecurity. Without adequate security, it may be difficult for INEC to conduct the forthcoming elections in the area. If election does not hold in the South East, millions of eligible voters will be disenfranchised. Let the government ensure that no eligible Nigerian voter is denied the right to vote because of violence.