The Chancellor of Sports University , Idumuje-Ugboko, and Delta North Senatorial Candidate of the PDP in next month’s election, Hon.Prince Ned Nwoko today gave profuse commendation to the management of a private secondary school , Royal Mira All Saints international school Asaba for it’s foresight in establishing the school, affiliated to Cambridge school London. Prince Nwoko who took a facility tour of Royal Mira school, accompanied by the founder Hon.Moses Iduh was seen round the class rooms, equipped with smart boards, a 700 -capacity multi purpose hall, teachers’offices,ICT centre, Solar -powered electricity device, as well as male and female hostels. He described education as the best legacy for humanity and noted that Hon.Iduh had demonstrated exemplary stride in the educational development of the state and Nigeria in general. “I am impressed. The expansive structures and facilities here are commendable. The standards of the learning infrastructure are world class. “The initiator chose a worthy cause of investing in the future of our children.Instead of building a hotel or pleasure spots as we see all over Asaba,he did something unique and different.Hon. Iduh has made a priceless contribution to the advancement of knowledge. “This institution will address our kids quest for learning,with the conducive environment.It is a good foundation for the educational and moral growth of the young ones” Nwoko said. In his remarks,the founder of Royal Mira All saints international school,Hon. Moses Iduh said it evolved from a desire to develop youngsters imbibed with sound education from the elementary stage. Hon.Iduh stated that the School operates primary and secondary arms with another centre located at his Owa Alero homestead,all bearing international ratings. Iduh who is the chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party for Delta North Senatorial district said he had always been passionate about education. “I feel fulfilled each time a pupil or student of Royal Mira stop me on the streets to introduce themselves.There is no greater joy than such encounter. ” The opportunities offered in the School are limitless. It is internationally recognized .The students gain admissions direct to foreign educational institutions. ” We have full compliments of highly experienced teaching staff. My wife an educationist in her own right is a great inspiration in the School. Royal Mira is a true fortress of knowledge”Iduh noted ,expressing optimism that the School would continue to be a leading light in Nigeria’s educational system.