From Molly Kilete, Abuja Military operations conducted across the country has resulted to the arrests of 90  terrorists, bandits, kidnappers, oil thieves, gunrunners and other criminals in the last three weeks. Also, many bandits were killed during exchange of gun firing with the military. This is just as soldiers on anti bunkering operation in the Niger Delta  region, destroyed several illegal refineries; cooking ovens, storage tanks, dugout pits, and wooden boats in the period under review  and denied the oil thieves of over N810million worth of stolen crude. Similarly 377, members of  Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists, and their families have surrendered to troops, who rescued 46 kidnapped victims. Director Defence Media Operations(DMO), Major General Musa Danmadami,who briefed Journalists  on  the update of military operations conducted between December 22, 2022-January 12, 2023, in the six geopolitical zones of the country. Gen. Danmadami, while noting that the operations conducted alongside other security agencies to tackle the security challenges in the Country was yielding very positive results, said that  troops have continued to sustain, and dominate their general areas of operational activities in villages, forest, mountains, towns and cities. He said that the troops  conducted several kinetic, and non-kinetic operations in different parts of the country. Giving an update on the operations, Danmadami, said soldiers recovered several arms, ammunition, and other dangerous weapons from the criminals, drums of Automotive Gas Oil, and Premium Motor Spirit, food stuffs, and other logistics from the criminals. He said: “Troops of Operation HADIN KAI, have sustained, and continued to dominate their general areas of operation. Operational activities were conducted in villages, forest, mountains, towns and cities of Bama, Gwoza, Konduga, Mafa, Monguno, Biu, Kukawa, Damboa, Ngala, Nganzai, Tarmuwa and Magumeri Local government area as well as Maiduguri metropolitan city of Borno State. Operations were also conducted at Nguru, Karasuwa, and Gujba Local government areas of Yobe State, as well as Madagali and Song Local government areas of Adamawa State, in the North East region of the country. The operations are  geared toward denying Boko Haram Terrorist/Islamic State of West Africa Province, and  other criminal elements freedom of actions, and  restore normalcy to the zone. Between 23 and 30 December 2022, troops on fighting patrols, ambushed Boko Haram Terrorist/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists at different locations within the theatre of operation. During the encounter with the terrorists at Kwatara village in Gwoza Local Government Area of Borno State, following the fire fight troops neutralized 5 terrorists, while their admin leader at Guduf identified as Umate Usman was captured with gunshot wounds.  “Troops also had a meeting engagement with terrorist close to their deployment at Ngoshe in Gwoza LGA . During the engagement, troops neutralized 5 terrorists,while other fled. Troops recovered one AK 47 rifle, 20 rounds of 7.62mm NATO, 10 rounds of locally fabricated 7.62mm special, 10 refilled ammo, two  hand grenade among other items. Equally, troops made contact with terrorist along Gamboru-Logomani in Ngala LGA.  During the encounter, troop neutralized three  terrorists, while other fled with gunshot wounds. Troops exploited the area,and recovered Two  AK47 rifles,one  FN rifle,one  RPG tube, and bomb, 94 rounds of 7.62mm belted NATO, 66 rounds of 7.62mm special, 30 rounds of 5.56mm ammunition and six  motorcycles. Also, following an encounter with terrorists at Bulge village in Konduga  LGA of Borno State, troops neutralized four  terrorists, while others fled. Troops recovered 2 PKT machine guns, two  FN rifles, 15 rounds of 7.62mm NATO,and a belt link containing 60 rounds of 7.62 x 51mm ammunition. “Furthermore, Troops also had meeting engagement with terrorists,while on patrol at Ngalzama village in Gujba LGA of Yobe State, and Hymbula in Madagali LGA of Adamawa State. During these encounter troops neutralized seven  terrorists while other fled in disarray. Troops exploited the general areas and recovered 4 locally fabricated AK 47 rifles,and 20 rounds of 7.62mm special. Also, on 28 December 2022, troops acting on  human intelligence conducted cordon, and search operation at a suspected Boko Haram Terrorist/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists . “Also, on January 2,2023, troops acting on credible information, and raided Major Ali village in Gwoza LGA of Borno State. During the operations, the abductors fled on sighting the troops, consequently, troops rescued 35 kidnapped civilians comprising of seven adult males, 12 adult females, and 16 children. Cumulatively, within the last three  weeks troops recovered 21 AK47 rifles, 4 FN rifles, three locally made pump action guns, five  locally made pistols, three  PKT machine guns, 124 rounds of 7.62mm NATO, 139 rounds of 7.62mm special, 29 rounds of 5.56mm ammunition, 140mm bomb, 1 UXO 81mm mortar bomb, three  RPG tubes, and bombs, 5 x 36 hand grenade, five  dane guns and five  FN magazines. Other items recovered are, 19 drums of Automotive Gas Oil, five  drums of Premium Motor Spirit, 10 bags of assorted grains, 10 crates of soft drinks, 150 pieces of used clothing, 50 pieces women fabrics, 50 children wear, 30 pairs of women foot wears, textiles materials, medical supplies, 21 motorcycles, 16 bicycles, two  grinding machines,one  tanker loaded with Premium Motor Spirit, 30 rustle cattle, the sum of N938,580.00, and other sundry items. “Troops equally neutralized 25 terrorists, arrested 18 terrorists as well as  21 Terrorist logistics suppliers, two terrorist foreign informants,and five  kidnappers. Troops also rescued 47 abducted civilians, while a total of 377 Boko Haram Terrorist/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists, and members of their families, comprising of 52 adult males, 126 adult females, and 199 children surrendered to troops at different locations within the theatres of operations “. All recovered items, apprehended criminals, rescued civilians,were handed over to the appropriate authority for further action, while the captured terrorists and surrendered Boko Haram Terrorist/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists and members of their families are being profiled for further action. “Equally, the air component of Operation HADIN KAI conducted series of air interdiction operations at terrorists hideouts, enclaves, and camps. Notably, on 22 December 2022, an air interdiction operation was conducted at terrorists enclaves at Suwa, Arina Woje,and Amchile in Marte Local Government Area of Borno State. The battle damage assessment revealed that several terrorists were neutralized with their structures destroyed in the strikes. “In related development the air component of Operation HADIN KAI conducted air interdiction operation at Mazuri in Southern Lake Chad region, and Gabchari located in Gazuwa area of Borno State on the 7 January 2023. The air interdiction operation was conducted base on credible intelligence that revealed that good a numbers of terrorists had relocated to the area following recent flooding of the Tunbuns in the Lake and the current infighting between the terrorist factions. Consequently, the located was bombarded and feedback revealed that scores of the terrorists were neutralized with all their structure destroyed. Similar operation was also carried out at Gabchari located in Gezuwa area following credible information that the location was a Boko Haram hideout. Information revealed that some terrorists who survived the air strikes at Mantari on 20 December 2022 were receiving medical treatment at the location. Accordingly, the location was equally bombarded with confirmed information that several of the terrorists were neutralized in the strikes while their facilities were also destroyed.