From Okwe Obi, Abuja New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) and Allied People’s Movement (APM) have said 2023 electionsprovides another opportunity for Nigeria to be salvaged from imminent collapse. This is as the two parties have predicted a brighter future for the country. They also task voters to scrutinise candidates to ensure they were the best for the country.  NNPP’s National Publicity Secretary, Agbo Major, in his new message , yesterday, said given ongoing challenges in the country,  voters must scrutinise candidates properly before casting their ballots. “As we approach the threshold of 2023, a fresh start is offered to us to enthrone genuine democracy and build a new Nigeria we all desire and deserve on the platform of the New Nigeria People’s Party. This will bring to an end our long national nightmare and consistent policies somersaults which crippled our economy and made Nigeria a laughing stock in the comity of nations.  “The task ahead are enormous and so are the opportunities to build a strong, virile, united, progressive, prosperous, equitable and just democratic society. Nation building is a collective responsibility of citizens and calls for prayers, unity, tolerance and shared vision. “The new year and the upcoming general election will afford Nigerians a unique opportunity to choose patriotic, credible, courageous, honest, compassionate, versatile and God-fearing leaders who will turnaround the destiny of the nation and steer the ship of the state from its perilous course.” Also, APM National Chairman, Yusuf Mamman Dantalle, charged  the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), to conduct free, fair and credible polls. Dantalle, tasked security agencies to be upright, proactive and ensure adequate protection of lives and property, and apprehend electoral offenders and their sponsors. “2023 provides us another opportunity to strengthen the foundations of our frail democracy, particularly the electoral process as citizens go to the polls to choose leaders that will pilot the affairs of the nation in the next four years.  “APM calls on INEC to ensure the elections are free, fair and credible as all eyes are on the commission to justify the confidence reposed in it with improved technology to discharge its constitutional duties. “Security agents should also be proactive and ensure adequate protection of lives and property, and apprehend electoral offenders and their sponsors to face the full weight of the law which will serve as a deterrent to others,” he said.