From Emmanuel Adeyemi,Lokoja National Assembly member Representing Yagba Federal Constituency , Leke Abejide at the weekend flagged off the construction of Ejuku, Makutu, Irunda-Ile, and Odo-Amu roads which have been death traps for the communities in the area Accompanied by his supporters, and massive followers, Hon. Leke Abejide was massively received by the people of the communities, singing, dancing, and eulogizing the member for delivering dividends of democracy and also doing more for the people as member of the House of Representatives. The traditional rulers of the communities appreciated Hon. Leke as he formally kicked off the upgrading and reconstruction of Ejuku, Makutu Isanlu, Irunda Ile, and Odo Amu roads, while he officially commissioned Alu-IgboEro road, giving the residents the feeling of long-sought relief. The four road projects are expected to be kickoff soon, as the contractors stated that they have been mobilized to start the construction. Hon. Leke officially flagged off the constructions and rehabilitation, in Ejuku, Hon. Leke stated that the situation of the road was bad and needed urgent attention, Makutu road has cut the people from going to the market in neighboring towns around Makutu axis, while the people around Irunda Ile can hardly access other neighboring communities due to the situation of the road network. Hon. Leke stated that: “Today’s event is remarkable not just for me personally, but for the people of Yagba who will directly benefit from these projects. The flag-off of these projects is the beginning of the much-needed relief I am bringing to our people on this axis.“We are here today to fulfill the promise we made during the campaign. These promises are now being translated into reality because we have the construction and rehabilitation of these roads. We have ensured that we deploy competent and reliable contractors to design and deliver the projects”Hon. Leke Abejide described Makutu as a critical component of the Yagba East and Isanlu, assuring residents of the communities that he remained committed to reviving infrastructure in Yagba Federal Constituency. “Irunda-Ile is critical to our agenda towards delivering the people of the community from the long dilapidated road network being experienced in the area. This is why I created the time to come and flag off these projects,” Hon. Leke said. Abejide said the projects were not being done to score cheap political points; rather, he said his representation considered them as the right of the people who had been longing to benefit from the dividends of governance, although he has been giving to the communities, especially to the widows and also lighting up the communities.He further said the situation of Makutu road has barred many market women from going to the market in neighboring towns around Isanlu community. Although, some of the roads, would be in phases, as Hon. Abejide assured that the project would not delay the construction of the second phase the member disclosed, but would create a chain of opportunities for residents living around the sites and linking them to other communities without stress, he pointed out that the contractors have been mobilized to the site to start immediately. Chief Dare Olatunde the Maiyegun of Isanlu Kingdom said, Hon. Leke Abejide meant well for the people of Yagba and he should be supported for another term, he also stated that the road projects will bring relief to the residents, as the projects would also eliminate the problem of flooding and bad roads on the axis and improve the social-economic wellbeing of the people. “When Hon. Abejide looked at what is obtainable, he almost postponed the work, while considering that he said the rehabilitation has to start, then, he decided to flag off the construction of these roads, so that our people will enjoy the dividends of good governance and many more.He said: “These projects are being carried out to improve road connectivity, ease accessibility, reduce travel time, enhance transportation services and safety of lives and property.They will be designed to eliminate perennial flooding, enhance property value and socio-economic wellbeing of the people.”He appealed to the residents to cooperate with the contractors and be patient as work progresses on the projects, noting that there would be inconveniences in some axis, especially for the people who have cashew farms and houses close to the construction area during the construction exercise. Hon. Leke Abejide with the traditional rulers present the official flag off the roads for construction and rehabilitation, he also commissioned Alu-Igbo Ero road.