The Enugu Electricity Distribution Company (EEDC) said it will  begin  the 2023 mobile mapping process for mass metering in Anambra on January . 10. This, it said, was to ensure that customers in the state  were captured and provided with prepaid metres within 48 hours under the Meters Asset Provider (MAP) project. Mr Emeka Ezeh, Head, Corporate Communications of EEDC said this in a statement on Thursday. Ezeh said the exercise would allow customers to pay, get metered, and get reimbursed with the value of the cost of the metre through energy supplied over a period of time. He said the programme would take place in Ogidi District on January 10 at St. Paul Anglican Church, Ogidi, Ochendo Hall, Ogidi and Afor Market Town Hall, Obosi and would run for three days. He said the single-phase meter sold for N63,061.27 while the three -phase meter was N117,910.69 inclusive of VAT. He said the mapping system was a conscious approach the company had adopted to close the existing metering gap in its network. Ezeh said it was designed to be implemented according to Feeders, with three  different locations selected within the areas covered by the Feeder where metres would be supplied simultaneously. According to him, customers within these areas will be pre-notified of when the exercise will be carried out within their neighborhood. “Customers residing in the listed locations are expected to visit the site along with a valid form of identification including Drivers License, Voters Card, NIN or International Passport and a copy of their bills. “At the location, EEDC officials will assist customers with the MAP application process, and installation will be made once payment is confirmed,” he stated. Ezeh urged customers to take advantage of the opportunity and get metered, reminding them that they would be reimbursed with the full value of the cost of the meter through energy supplied over a period. He said MAP was a metering intervention designed and approved by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) to close the existing metering gap in the sector. “It will be recalled that in June 2022, EEDC launched the pilot of mobile MAP metering in Enugu and has executed the same in several locations within the metropolis. “EEDC reaffirms that it is in its best interest to have all its customers metered, which informs its commitment towards ensuring that its customers are metered, “The exercise was in conjunction with its MAP partners,” he said.