By Kenneth Chiedozie Construction works have commenced in earnest at “Urua-Amada” – St. Thomas Parish-Nkwelle Village Road located in Oraukwu, Idemili North LGA of Anambra Central, Anambra State,  courtesy of the Senator representing the district at the National Assembly,  Senator Uche Ekwunife. The road, which is one of the new road projects recently flagged off by the Senator, is targeted at boosting economic activities in the rural areas through the expansion of additional access routes within communities in Anambra Central. On Thursday, members of the community woke up to behold the equipment of the contractor handling the project embarking on intensive earthworks on the village road. The residents showered encomiums on Ekwunife, saying the road and other infrastructural projects facilitated by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Senator has changed their story for good. Meanwhile, several political groups have continued to throw their weight behind the re-election bid of Senator Ekwunife who is seeking to return to the Red Chambers. Ekwunife, whose campaign has since begun, received a huge boost on Friday as over 2000 women drawn from the eight political wards in Awka South Constituency endorsed her re-election bid. Ekwunife was accorded the endorsement at Eziakpaka, Umuayiom Village in Awka where she attended a rally organised by the group in her honour. Leader of the group, Mrs Ify Chinwuko extolled the Senator for what she described as “inclusive representation,” noting that Ekwunife has made a name for the women folks in Anambra Central Senatorial District and beyond through her people oriented Leadership. Another stakeholder Amb. Kenechukwu Ekwunife said the electorate of Anambra Central were satisfied with Ekwunife’s achievements in the Senate. Kenechukwu, a former National Chairman of Awka Ambassadors, assured Ekwunife of reelection. Responding, Senator Ekwunife conveyed her gratitude over the endorsement. She used the occasion to present her scorecard and further intimated the community on other forthcoming projects. Ekwunife disclosed that she has built 32 houses for women, instituted a federal agency in Awka, facilitated the construction of a laboratory project at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University (UNIZIK) and constructed a road in Amenyi, Awka, among others. In a related development, thousands of well wishers of Ekwunife in Enugwu-Ukwu, Njikoka local government area on Friday afternoon embarked on a solidarity march in support of the Senator.