From Fred Itua, Ndubuisi Orji, Molly Kilete, Abuja and Chukwudi Nweje About 48 days to the presidential election, there are fresh concerns over the perceived harassment by some security agencies of some key figures of government with key responsibilities in the conduct of the polls. Such harassment, it was gathered, might be to force such officials to step down from their positions, an act that might impact negatively on the successful conduct of the elections. The main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as well as leaders of some ethnic-based organisations have warned against such actions, which they claimed might derail the 2023 general elections Recently, the courts barred the Department of State Services (DSS) from arresting Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, over allegations of terrorism funding, just as the agency has been restricted from arresting the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu, over alleged false declaration of assets. Justice M.A. Hassan of the Abuja High Court in separate judgements barred the DSS from inviting, arresting, and detaining Emefiele, and dismissed a suit seeking an order of mandatory injunction directing and compelling Prof Yakubu to recuse, excuse and exclude himself and or step down as the Chairman of INEC pending the investigation and consideration of the various allegations against him by the various law enforcement agencies. PDP National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, told Saturday Sun that the government must discourage actions that will give an impression of attempts to cow institutions with critical roles in the conduct of the 2023 polls. Ologunagba said Nigerians, especially the youths will resist any action that will threaten the smooth conduct of the general elections. “We think the APC government should be conscious that the Nigerian people are not going to take any shenanigans. The laws are there to be implemented or executed. But any action that will threaten the smooth conduct of the electoral process, whether directly or indirectly, or instigated by some individuals, will be resisted by Nigerians. “And the government must step forward to ensure that all agencies of government that are connected with the conduct of the general elections are allowed to conduct their business in line with their mandates. And there should be no attempt whatsoever, either directly by government agencies or through proxies, instigated to derail the process,” he stated. Pan Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, the Middle Belt Forum (MBF) and Aka Ikenga have also expressed concerns over moves in some quarters to force some members of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration who have key roles to play in the 2023 general election out of office less than 48 days to the commencement of the 2023 general elections. According to the President of MBF, Dr Pogu Bitrus, the different alleged suits seeking the arrest of Emefiele and Yakubu could be targeted at manipulating the general elections. He said: “Anything being brought against the INEC chairman now is diversionary. Court orders are very important, but they are trying to use the court to create a diversion. “We want an undistracted political process this 2023, anything against the INEC chairman should be put on hold for now until we finish this election. “We want free, fair and credible election, the issue of BVAS has come to stay, and by the grace of God, it will be forward ever and backward never for our electoral process, the voice of the people will be heard, votes will count.” He said a similar alleged suit against the CBN governor could not be divorced from redesigning the Naira notes to prevent vote-buying. He further said: “Regarding the elections, what the CBN governor did and what the President approved is a welcome development in Nigeria’s political history and development. “The President wants to leave office with at least one legacy of improving our political system. People stack money in their houses for vote buying. What is being done to the INEC chairman and the CBN Governor may be connected and those behind these should stay action, let the people of Nigeria decide who will lead Nigeria not because of money but because they believe those are the people that will move Nigeria forward and add value to their lives. We want an election that is not influenced by money.” National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, Jare Ajayi, said the move against the INEC Chairman is the handiwork of anti-democratic forces. He said: “What do those calling for the resignation of INEC Chairman at this time want to achieve other than the truncation of the electoral process and subversion of democratic progression as well? So far, the electoral umpire under Prof Mahmood Yakubu has been acting in a manner that is rekindling the confidence and interest of well-meaning Nigerians in the electoral process. “Those who may be thinking of subverting the system should have a rethink and channel their energies to pursuing nobler goals including possible marketing of their candidates or whatever ideas they have to move Nigeria forward.” He urged every Nigerian to cooperate with INEC so that the elections in February and March can be successfully conducted. Former President of Aka Ikenga, Goddy Uwazurike said a ‘cabal’ bent on “directing the affairs of this country could be behind the suits.” He said: “I believe a cabal is anxious to direct the affairs of this country. In other words, the cabal wants to make sure that this country exists only according to the whims and caprices of the cabal. An example of this hold can be found in the way and manner a former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) was removed. “The curious angle here is that the INEC chair, CBN Gov and the DSS boss report directly to the president. I am worried that there is a grand conspiracy aloof.” But the DSS in a statement, said it is constitutionally empowered to protect Nigeria. It said it is not in court to stop INEC Chairman from carrying out his assigned task over an alleged non-declaration of assets. DSS Public Relations Director, Dr Peter Afunaya said: “This statement, however, becomes important to guide public understanding and perception, especially that the said report is misleading. It falsely left an impression that the Service went to court against the INEC Chairman.”