From Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri Former Imo State Governor, Mr. Ikedi Ohakim is  still in shock over Monday’s attack on  his convoy by Gunmen  at Oriagu, Ehime Mbano, saying that  his attackers were on a mission to assassinate him. Although four of his police orderlies, including a driver, lost their lives in the attack, but the former governor and his two children who were with him during the incident were fortunate to escape unhurt. Ohakim has also attributed his survival  to his bulletproof car, saying that he would have been dead . According to him,after his attackers rained bullets  on his vehicle, and tyre,his vehicle kept on moving, because it is bullet proof car. Contrary to speculations that his attackers were  members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Ohakim, said  that his attackers were more professionals than the IPOB . Giving a graphic account on  how  the attack happened, he said, “we were driving between Isiala Mbano, and Ehime Mbano. The criminals blocked us at Umualumaku. “They attacked us from behind, and were firing at our vehicles consistently. I thought I was a dead man, and I was with two of my childrens,  my son and daughter. “What saved me was the bulletproof vehicle. That I am alive today is by the special grace of God and the bulletproof vehicle. “But unfortunately for me, they killed four of our boys, including the driver. Yes, we lost four of the boys ,and I am devastated. “How could that be? What crime did they commit?”, Ohakim lamented. He said even when his own driver managed to escape from the scene, the assailants pursued his vehicle. “They pursued us and continued firing at our tyres. Luckily, the vehicle has what is called run-on flat tyres in  which you can continue driving even after a puncture. “So, even when they shot at the tyres, hoping to immobilise us, the vehicle continued moving. “If they were ordinary tyres and the vehicle had stopped, they would have finished us. “But the tyres held on until we got back home. We drove for about 20 minutes before we got home. That was the saving grace.” “The driver who manifested tremendous level of driving skill kept manoeuvring until he lost them at a junction when he went right and not knowing where we had gone, they headed the other direction on the road to Umuahia. “We then turned and went back to my house. We were there when Imo Government House sent reinforcement from Owerri,who brought the corpses of my security people.” He said. On his view about the attackers, he said, “This goes beyond the IPOB, I must say. These are professionals, well-trained. “They are not ordinary people. They were driving a blue colour BMW 5-series car, brand new. They came to kill me.”