From Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has turned down the request of Anambra State Governor, Chukwuma Soludo, to stand as a surety for its leader, Nnamdi Kanu, who is still being detained by the Department of State Security Service (DSS). IPOBm, in a statement by its spokesperson, Emma Powerful, yesterday, commended the voluntary move by Soludo to sign a surety for the unconditional release of Kanu, but noted that the request was belated. Powerful said Kanu does not need any surety because he has already been discharged by the court and tasked Soludo to gear all his efforts towards persuading and compelling the Federal Government to obey the judgement of the court that freed the IPOB leader. He said: “We wish to welcome the recent call Governor Soludo for the unconditional release of Kanu.  “Though the said call for the unconditional release of our leader is belatedly coming three months and one day, after the Court of Appeal, Abuja judicial division, in its erudite judgement delivered on October 13, 2022, discharged and acquitted the IPOB leader of all the remaining eight-count amended charge preferred against him, and consequently directed for his unconditional release. “The landmark judgement further prohibited the Federal Government from further detaining our leader or even presenting him for trial on any indictment or offence whatsoever before any court in Nigeria. “It is important, therefore, to clarify that Kanu has no any form of indictment or even charge pending against him before any court by the authority of this judgement.  “The issue of granting bail or otherwise does not arise by any stretch of consideration or imagination, because it is the Federal Government that is today in breach of this order of superior court of competent jurisdiction. “It is to be emphasised further that Onyendu who was discharged on October 13, 2022 by by Court of Appeal do not have any need for surety because there is no charge hanging on his neck. “We have gone beyond issue of surety or no surety, every genuine call or demand in the prevailing circumstance should be firmly directed at calling out on the Federal Government to immediately obey the order for the unconditional release of Kanu made by its own court. “May we also remind Governor Soludo and others, that Kanu’s current incarceration is not sanctioned by any law known to man, it is unconstitutional and affront to constitutional democracy and rule of law. “Further to the above, is the fact that Kanu has no case to answer again,  therefore, the need for surety does not arise.”