Politicians in Plateau State have been tasked to steer clear of all actions that could lead to violence ahead of the upcoming polls in February. The admonition came against the backdrop of acts of violence that plague part of Shendam in the state. A political stakeholder in the state, Gabriel Sabbanani, said for the nearly eight years that Governor Simon Lalong has ruled the state, citizens and visitors have experienced peace and security. “But today, we have seen how some are willing to trade away all that gains on the altar of politics not minding the consequences on the people of the state, the very people they are intending to govern.” He said the caution becomes necessary following the violence that almost took place in the governor’s local government, where some youths alleged to be loyal to the Labour Party candidate in Plateau State, Patrick Dakum, were instigated into taking actions meant to embarrass the governor. “They are yet to fathom how the governor with his appointment as the director general of the Tinubu/Shettima APC Presidential Campaign Council, has been able to whittle down the attempt at primordial politics to politics of issues and ideas and is set to deliver Plateau to the APC in the next general election.  But one is not surprised that they are doing what they are doing now because they have lost touch with the people and cannot campaign on issues as Lalong has covered every ground they would have tried to promise the people. “Governor Lalong has achieved lasting peace and security in the state so candidates of other parties have nothing to say about restoration of peace which used to be a problem. The governor has also paid salaries and taken care of the welfare of workers so that too, which used to be a big issue with the past administration is no longer a campaign issue. “Further to that, Governor Lalong has built several lasting infrastructure in the state and has put on ground legacy projects that are tested to serve the people of Plateau for the next 50 years. “It is because of these that the opposition party candidates have resorted to dirty and bitter politics where name calling, threats, brigandage and thuggery rule the day. But Lalong has been a peaceful governor who made the return to peace a cardinal principle of his administration and cannot be pressured into such acts of desperation.