From Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.   Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, and Vice-Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Governor of Delta State, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, have reaffirmed their support for the introduction of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) into the Nigerian electoral system. The duo spoke in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, on Wednesday during the South- South Monarchs Forum Extraordinary General Assembly with the theme: “Entrenching Grassroots Security and Peace in the South-South Region during and after 2023 General Election.” According to him,  the importance of BVAS cannot be over-emphasized, as it will go a long way in reducing electoral fraud. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari for his insistence on free and fair elections, stressing that the country is relying on him to match words with action and deliver a credible 2023 general election. While describing democracy as a government of the people, Diri called on politicians and Nigerians in general to allow the electorate make their choices without molestation. He seized the opportunity to caution politicians against the use of youths for violence and called on all hands to be on deck to ensure a violence-free election.   His words: “Let me take the liberty of this event to remind us of what we have to advocate for. In the forthcoming elections, we must do our best to prevent our youths from being used as tools of violence by selfish politicians.   “I also endorse the introduction of BVAS as I believe it will reduce electoral fraud. We rely on Mr. President to match words with action and make the 2023 elections transparent.”   On his part, Governor Okowa, said it is crucial for all stakeholders to find ways to ensure peaceful elections.   He expressed gratitude to President Buhari, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and all stakeholders playing various roles to ensure that Nigeria has a credible election, pointing out  that with more efforts in that direction, there is hope for the country.   Okowa also hailed the introduction of BVAS and wondered why some persons and political parties were against a technology that will promote credible elections and improve the image of Nigeria even in the international community. He said: “I thank our royal fathers for inviting governors of the South-South and their counterparts from the South East. The topic is wonderful because it is best to find ways to stop electoral violence to help us prepare the ground for a peaceful election. Earlier, Chairman, South South Monarchs Forum and Amanyanabo of Nembe, Dr. Edmund Daukoru, said the aim of the organizers of the meeting is to achieve peaceful elections in the country.   Describing Governor Diri as a man of peace, he called on the government and the people to take matters of security more seriously before, during and after elections. Chairman, Bayelsa State Council of Traditional Rulers and Ibenanaowei of Ekpetiama Kingdom, King Bubaraye Dakolo called for better action from relevant authorities to check electoral violence.