From Wilson Okereke, Afikpo Operatives of Ebubeagu Security Network, the regional security outfit of South East State governments have become an endangered species in Ebonyi State.  They have severally been attacked by hoodlums while many of them paid the supreme price. Recently, three Ebubeagu operatives escaped death by whiskers as they were brutally assaulted by hoodlums at Umubo village, Igboeze Onicha Autonomous Community in Onicha LGA. A 42-year-old member of the group, Emmanuel Okoroafor, aka Micheline and two of his colleagues, Okorie Obasi and Ikechukwu Nwani, were almost lynched in the night of Monday, January 9, 2023. State police spokesman, Chris Anyanwu, would not speak on the issue.  Okorafor narrated their ordeal at the Emergency Unit of Federal Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki (FETHA II). According to him, on the fateful day, himself and two of his colleagues were on assignment but were ambushed on their way back to their homes by over 20 youths of Umubo village whom he alleged were armed with dangerous weapons.  He said they did not have the slightest inkling that danger was lurking around:  “The entire Onicha Clan was peaceful. We were returning home when the men accosted us and began to inflict injuries on us with their cutlasses, daggers and sticks over the reason that we are loyal to Onicha Council chairman. Before help could come, the people ran away with my CG 125 motorcycle and four of our phones.” Another victim, Obasi, said their attackers gave him several matchet cuts on the head, stressing that there was no alteration between them before the incident: “They seized us until other Ebubeagu operatives led by the Council Commander, aka Gboogboo, stormed the scene and rescued us. Before then, the miscreants had dealt with us and equally stole our phones, other valuables and one of our motorcycles. “I did not know that my fellow Onicha persons could maltreat me in this manner as if being a member of Ebubeagu had disqualified me from being an indigene even when I am doing the duty with all sincerity.”  He added that the people equally clubbed all parts of his body with their weapons.  The third victim, Nwani, explained that the only offence they committed was being part of the state-sponsored security outfit.  Daily Sun gathered that on hearing about the incident, the council chairman, Chidiebere Uzor, immediately dispatched a vehicle that raced down to the community and ferried the victims to the hospital where they were currently receiving treatment.