From Tony Osauzo, and Ighomuaye Lucky, Benin The Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, yesterday,  said  two victims of the  Igueben train station kidnapping incident are still in captivity. He said this yesterday, when he paid a visit to 12 of the abductees who were rescued. Addressing newsmen in Benin, shortly after visiting the  rescued victims at the Police Cottage Hospital, where they had been taken for tests and rehabilitation, he commended the combined security team in the state, hunters, and members of the Edo State Security Network, for the success recorded He said efforts were  ongoing to ensure the safe rescue of the remaining victims. “I visited 12 rescued kidnapped victims, who were abducted frome the Igueben Train Station in the state, assuring that we will leave no stone unturned in securing the release of the two remaining hostages,” the governor said. Obaseki said the  victims were rescued when the security team tracked and intercepted the kidnappers in their hideout, saying that  security operatives were tactful in their approach to ensure that no life was lost in the operation. “During the encounter with the abductors, 12 of the victims were rescued, while some of the kidnappers were arrested. “ However, a few of the kidnappers escaped with two of the victims,” he said. The governor faulted  the authority  of the Nigeria Railway Corporation who he said failed to provide adequate security at the various train stations after the Kaduna incident. “After the Kaduna incident, you would have expected that they would secured their facility better and for gunmen to have come in to their facilities and kidnapped almost 30 people is something that has to be investigated as it doesn’t give confidence to the people that they would be safe using their facilities”. He said it is worrisome that the Igueben train station only have one policeman with one rifle guarding the facility even after what had happened in Kaduna. The governor, however  blamed traditional rulers in the area who he said flouted government’s decision to ensure that grazing opportunity are not given to herders in their forests. “I have instructed that the matter should be investigated and any one found to be harbouring people they should not harbour in their domain, would have questions to answer. We don’t have this incident in  communities that have cooperated with us on the directive” On his part, Edo State Commissioner of Police, Muhammed Dankwara, said that  the 12 victims were rescued  in Ugboha, while two staff of the station are still held captive. Stating how the 12 victims were rescued, Dankwara, said, “we got intelligence report that the kidnappers were roaming about in the Udoh forest and the security forces laid an ambush, and in trying to move the victims from one location to another , the security agents intercepted them and  they abandoned their victims.”  He said the 12 rescued victims brought the figure to 18, the total numbers of victims so far rescued, adding that some people who are part of the kidnapping syndicate have been arrested. The rescued victims, are  Eunice Eseba 56,  Marian Mowoe  28, Faith Smart 42,  Precious Egwuje  28, Obehi Omaben 39,  Amm Benson 42, Favour Akungo18, Akhimen Ehiemamen 48, Christian Iyere 33, Emmanuel Esieba  67, lyoha Julius 25, Aguelle Beatrice 42.