From Olanrewaju Lawal, Birnin Kebbi Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Kids Taekwondo competition, organized by the National President of Nigeria Taekwondo Association,Alhaji Abdullahi Saidu, has kicked off in Birnin Kebbi.  The competition was designed for the trainees of Kids Taekwondo Academy, Birnin Kebbi, a private academy owned by the National President of NTF, Saidu to showcase their skills.  Grouped into red and blue corners,  the event featured children within the ages of 5 to 15 years pairing among themselves in the 18 match combatant kicks, which lasted to second rounds. Different prices and laurels were given to the first, second and third runners up.  While commending the organizer, Governorship candidate of PRP in Kebbi State, Alhaji Abubakar Udu Idris  described the kids competition, which debuted in the state for the first time, as impressive, stressing that the game would prepare the kids for any challenges ahead of them.  He said that the organizer and proprietor of the Taekwondo Kids Academy should be encouraged and supported by all Nigerians to ensure Olympic champions  are emerging from the state.  In his remark, the Acting Permanent Secretary of the Kebbi Ministry of Sports and Youths Development ,Usman Ladan said that the state government would continue to support all sports activities including Taekwondo to prepare the citizens for leadership roles and build them into becoming future champions.  Earlier, the National President of Taekwondo, Alhaji Abdullahi Saidu, who is also the proprietor of the Kids Taekwondo Academy, explained that the commencement of the kids competition was to catch up the young ones earlier at their tender age, for bigger competitions in the nearest future. Saidu disclosed that he started the Taekwondo structure in the state about 10 years ago and commenced the academic a year ago by educating, training the children in Taekwondo skills and self defense.  “What you have seen today is  the first ever kiddiesTaekwondo tournament.  This year alone, there are two national tournaments slated. There is a Kebbi national tournament coming up in September, and the Inspector General of Police national open Taekwondo tournament in November. That would give our kids an opportunity to display their skills.  He appealed to the government to reach out  and assist  the academy so that they could bring out many talented youths roaming about the streets  and nurture them to become Olympic champions.  Saidu added that his academy has produced national champions like ‘Spider’, amongst others who have won laurels for Kebbi state.