The wife of Kwara governor, Mrs  Olufolake AbdulRazaq, has presented cash and gifts to first babies of the year across the three senatorial districts in the state. This is contained in a statement issued by the Press Secretary, Ministry of Women Affairs, Hamdalat Saad, on Tuesday in Ilorin. Represented by Hajia Maryam Ahmed, the Commissioner for Women Affairs, she urged mothers in the country to take adequate care of their babies. Mrs AbdulRazaq also advised mothers to always ensure healthy growth and development of their babies through immunisation, exclusive breastfeeding and provision of proper nutrition. The Kwara first lady said the event was meant to create awareness on the importance of healthy living for mothers and newborn babies. While congratulating the families of the new born babies, Mrs AbdulRazaq expressed gladness that the beginning of the new year recorded the birth of new born babies. She also prayed that God would continually bless the parents to cater for their needs. “I wish to congratulate the hospital management, parents of the first babies as well as other babies born nationwide. “It is an annual routine exercise to make this presentation to the mother of first, second and third children delivered at the commencement of each year. “May God Almighty bless the babies, the mothers and provide sufficiently for the families,” she said. She also enjoined mothers to embrace ante-natal care, hospital deliveries and post-natal care. The wife of the governor said the programmes were aimed at addressing the challenges of maternal and child mortality, maintaining basic sanitation and hygiene, birth spacing, child registration at birth and the need to enroll children in schools at the appropriate age. The first baby of the year, a male, was delivered at the General Hospital, Patigi, Patigi Local Government Area of the state, at 6 a.m on Jan. 1. The second baby, a female, was delivered at 8.05 a.m, and the third baby, a male, born at 9.30 a.m, at the same general hospital on same day. The governor’s wife and her team also visited Amoyo Health Care Centre, lfelodun Local Government Area in Kwara South, where three children were delivered, and also Adewole Cottage Hospital, llorin, where four babies were given birth to. The Chief Medical Directors of Adewole Cottage Hospital, Dr Adebayo Suleiman, and that of the General Hospital, Patigi, Dr Muhammed Akeem, expressed gratitude to the governor’s wife for her efforts towards improving the health and lives of mothers and children at the grassroots. They also commended the state government for placing high premium on healthcare delivery. In their separate responses, the families of the new born babies expressed appreciation to Mrs AbdulRazaq for her support, praying God to continue to bless her and the family. (NAN)