From Kenneth Udeh, Abuja Senate Chief Whip, Orji Uzor Kalu, has said the ability of the presidential flag-bearer of All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to delegate responsibilities to competent persons in authority will be beneficial for the country when eventually elected. Shedding more light, the former Abia governor said Tinubu’s skill to assign responsibilities is in line with the contemporary requirements of modern democracy, noting that the era of leaders single handedly conceiving and executing policies was over. Kalu made the assertion while speaking on Political Paradigm, a political programme of Channels Television. The APC chieftain cited the rapid growth of Lagos to back his assertion, explaining that Tinubu as governor had set the stage for development in the state. Kalu maintained the consistent political platform of Lagos put in place by the former Lagos governor since 1999 has added to the growth and development witnessed in the state over the years. He said: “Tinubu will be one of the greatest presidents we shall ever have because of the skill of delegation. He has the skill and the modern way of leading people is no longer everything (powers) to yourself. “You must assign the job to other people who are competent, you must tell the people to do it and he has proven that as governor of Lagos and after. “Why Lagos is growing is because the leadership has been under one route and political party since 1999. So, consistency matters a lot. I believe Tinubu will do a lot of things differently for the benefit of Nigerians, especially the business people. “Lagos is a business centre and he knows we can’t govern effectively without involving the business people, so we have to enter a strong partnership with them. “When people said Buhari wasn’t going to support Tinubu, we went to the president and told him this is our party, it’s not about anybody and you can see the president has come out willingly to identify and campaign for our party . Responding to questions on the alleged ill health of the APC presidential candidate, Kalu dismissed the claims describing them as mere public insinuations. Kalu clarified that Tinubu was very stable and healthy and revealed that the presidential hopeful works round the clock to attend to campaign activities and retires to bed at 3am daily. Kalu added that it was normal for humans above the age of 40 years to witness few health challenges, which, however, can be managed to function effectively. “His (Tinubu’s) health is very stable. No man above 40 is not sick. There is not one, no Nigerian above 40 that is not sick,” Kalu said on the pre-recorded Channels TV programme. The APC chieftain also stressed that some political opponents forged incoherent statements attributed to Tinubu at rallies. “These are things you people go to forge on the internet. All these things can be forged by political opponents,” he said.