From Magnus Eze, Enugu  Bianca Ojukwu, wife of late Igbo leader, Dim Chukuwuemeka Odumegwu-Ojukwu has said that the Igbo, above other things, need justice, equity and inclusiveness in Nigeria. The former Nigeria’s Ambassador to Spain, spoke while receiving a delegation from the presidential candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who visited her at the family’s GRA Enugu residence. She noted that most Nigerians were looking forward to a new government which will change the already established norms in the country, declaring that the oncoming polls were decisive to the future of Nigeria and its people. “I would like to say that the elections we are looking forward to, for most Nigerians, is an election that will alter the status quo. I think all of us here know what we in the South East are passing through. We are looking forward to a government that will bring in security. We are looking forward to a government that will alleviate the sufferings of the people. “Of course, Ndigbo are looking for equity, fairness and inclusiveness which we have not really been accorded by the Nigerian political class. And this is the message I would want you to take back to the presidential candidate of All Progressive Congress. “In All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), we also have a presidential candidate that we hope will do what is necessary to change the paradigm. Nigerians are all looking forward to a new nation; a new nation that is very importantly, uncontaminated by the past. “And as time goes by and the days go by, we also hope that there will be peace after this election and this peace can only be guaranteed by some degree of magnanimity by whoever God ordains to be the leader of Nigeria at this important time.” Mrs. Ojukwu welcomed the APC flag bearer’s emissary, but asked that everybody joined in prayers “and ask God for His will to be done.” Earlier, leader of the delegation and Deputy National Chairman of APC (South), Chief Emma Eneukwu, pleaded for the blessing and support of the Ojukwu family to Tinubu’s presidential bid. He described Tinubu as a man who has shown the capacity and intelligence needed to turn the nation’s fortunes around, adding that the interest of Ndigbo would be protected under Tinubu’s presidency.