Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Shangai Engineering Works Limited, Mr. Festus Mbisiogu and Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Stanel Group, Dr. Stanley Uzochukwu, have described The Sun Awards as the most prestigious in Africa, which will challenge them to continue doing their best. According to Mbisiogu and Uzochukwu, it was heart-warming for a reputable newspaper like The Sun to chose them as recipients of Industrialist of the Year and Investor of the Year Awards for 2022 respectively. The duo and 24 others will on Saturday, January 28 be honoured at The Sun Awards ceremony holding at the Expo Convention Centre, Eko Hotels & Suites, qVictoria Island, Lagos. Speaking in Lagos when the Managing Director/ Editor-in-Chief of The Sun Publishing Limited, Mr. Onuoha Ukeh, led a management team to present letters of notification to them, Mbisiogu and Uzochukwu commended the management of The Sun for counting them worthy for the awards. Mbisiogu said: “I want to thank The Sun for this very award and I pray to God to continue to give you that strength and wisdom to serve this nation. The Sun is really the voice of the nation.” He said with the award, The Sun has challenged him to do more towards the social and economic development of the country. Mbisiogu said industrialisation contributes greatly to economic development, “as through it wealth is created, employment created and reduction of poverty is achieved.” He said the establishment of his industries in Imo and Lagos states was borne out of the desire to join in the effort to cause economic boom in the country as well as give Nigerians jobs. “I was living in China, doing business and felt that I should come home to site an Industry. We are also encouraging others to so do.” The business mongul said industries would thrive more in Nigeria when government solves the problem of power. “Addressing power situation in the country will cause a big turn-around. It will reduce cost of production, reduce price of products and bring about greater prosperity,” Mbisiogu said. Uzochukwu, on his part, said the award would spur him to do more, as he feels he has not done enough to be honoured. He said: “When they told me about this award, I had mixed feelings, I had reservations because I didn’t feel I have done enough to be honoured. But one of my mentors told me that The Sun Awards were one of the most prestigious in Africa and that they come on merit. I decided to accept the award because of this and also because it was unsolicited. I was better convinced that The Sun saw something good in what we are doing.” Uzochukwu promised to do more investments that would create jobs to take people out of the unemployment market as well as cause economic growth in the country. Speaking earlier, The Sun MD said Mbisiogu had made a tremendous impact in the manufacturing sector. He said: “The country has benefited from your experience as a widely traveled businessman with experience in international trade and businesses in China, United Arab Emirates, Vietnam, the United Kingdom and Nigeria. “You set out early as a businessman. You achieve success as an Industrialist and representative of a global manufacturing and logistics company in China and Nigeria. Through the company, you found Uzotek International Nigeria Limited, Blue Diamond Limited as well as Shangai Engineering Works and Industrial Limited.” On why Uzochukwu was named Investor of the Year, 2022, Ukeh said: “Your success story cannot be complete without a flashback on how you got N150 million as start-up capital from Chief Cosmas Maduka and judiciously used the money to develop your business. You displayed transparent honesty by paying back the loan in good time even though there was no documented agreement. “You later diversified into the manufacturing and sale of automobile components as well as vehicle accessories for personal and industrial use. In just a few years, you have grown Stanel Group to become a major player in different sectors of the Nigerian economy, including hospitality. “You also invested in a N1.5 billion massive gas plant, which is located along Awka Expressway. Other articles of trade of the Stanel Group where you have done well are Stanel Tyres, Stanel Engine Oil, and Stanel Gas Cylinders.” Apart from Mbisiogu and Uzochukwu, others who will also receive awards are Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, Malam Mele Kyari, Group Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (Man of the Year); Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State, Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State and Governor Umaru Fintiri of Adamawa (Governor of the Year); Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State (Courage in Leadership); Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State (Political Icon) and Dr. Zainab Shinkafi-Bagudu (First Lady of the Year). Other award winners are, General Overseer, Omega Power Ministries, Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere, Chief James Chijioke Ume, Chairman, Unubiko Foundation (Humanitarian Service Icon); Lady Ada Chukwudozie of Dozzy Group (Industrialist of the Year); Barr Mrs. Ngozi Ekeoma, Managing Director, Nepal Energies Limited, Chief Benjamin Igwe (Entrepreneur of the Year) and Dr. John-Kennedy Opara, Chairman, CSS Ingrated Farms Limited (Investor of the Year). Also to receive awards are, Chief Kelvin Jumbo Onumah, Chairman of Sublime Group Limited (Hospitality Personality), Mercy Johnson-Okojie (Nollywood Personality); Chief Gabriel Igbinedion, Esama of Benin Kingdom; Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife, ex-Anambra State governor; Alhaja Sinatu Ojikutu, ex-Lagos Deputy Governor, and Alhaji Sule Lamido, former Jigawa State governor (Lifetime Achievement). Others are Prof. Mohammed Sani Haruna, Executive Vice Chairman, National Agency for Science, Engineering Infrastructure; Dr. George Moghalu, MD, National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA); Dr. Richard Okoye, Chief Medical Director, Save A Mission Hospital Group, Port Harcourt (Public Service) and Mr. Olukayode Pitan, MD, Bank of Industry (Banker of the Year).