It was exciting to hear about a couple I know in the U.S, who wedded as virgins. The groom, an Engineer, lives in the U.S while his bride, a Medical Doctor, living in Nigeria, joined him. It is sad to know that millions of people (male or female), who live in Nigeria or in the United States, lose their virginity in the college, believing that everyone is like that.  In the early 80s, a lady, in fact, my convert, rang a Christian sister on her first wedding night seeking counsel on what to do. Purity is Gods standard for His children. Tall testimonies by Gods children of being tenants in sin when they were unbelievers, as cheering as they might be, are nothing but the second best. Therefore, we advocate that children should be exposed to the Word of God at a tender age before adventuring into Satans kingdom. It is a great challenge to us when unbelievers wed as virgins. And it happens from time to time. The manner children are raised impact their value system, whether their parents are believers or not. If we pray that our children should excel us, the implication is obvious. They will then excel us in education, wealth, position, et cetera and also, in all the things we do, whether good or evil. Unfaithful spouses should expect the same from their children. Years ago, Ernest, a young man, was coasting in his apartment when a beautiful lady came to him. He thought that she wanted to ask for direction for her journey. It was rather to spend the night in his house as it was getting nightfall. He accepted readily, thanking his stars for the nest egg. In sex matters, some men do not consider physical attraction, even if the lady is deformed. One could imagine the height of their ambition when the ladies are educated and beautiful like the guest Ernest had.    To his surprise, the lady turned down all his advances that night towards sexual relationship with her. Ladies, unlike men, cave-in to physical attraction or wealth and both were in his kitty and yet, she was indifferent. What gave Ernest the jitters was how a lady would refuse his sex advances when her parents or relations were not around to know what she did. Was she afraid of pregnancy? That, he found out was not the case. That beauty queen left in the morning, leaving her unhappy host demented and disappointed because of his unfulfilled desire. But deep in his heart, Ernest was earnest, in admiring and respecting her and her stance on chastity. In her, he had found a wife. Though charming and inviting, what recommended her was not her physical attraction but purity. Who would not like to have a wife you could leave at home and travel to Greenland for months, sleeping with both eyes closed, and not imagining what she would be doing with your friends or her boss in the office? In 1976, Ernest wedded her and I had the singular honour of proposing his toast. No man wants to marry a whore, not even morally debased men. A man can be in friendship with two ladies and to attract him, one of them may be offering her body to him. He may make similar moves towards the second lady. If she resists him, though still in love with him, she is the one he will marry when he is ready for it. If she does it with me, men argue, what is the guarantee that she will not do it with another man? A Christian lady may receive marriage proposals from many men. As she seeks the face of God to know who to accept, some of them eliminate themselves from her list when they attempt to sleep with her. Their true nature is manifested when she gives them a second chance and still, they continue their sex demand. One of such men visited a lady and wanted to spend the night with her. She encouraged him to go home but he would not listen. After dinner, she slept with her neighbour, and decided to punish him by not fleeting her room with mosquito insecticide. All the mosquitoes paid him homage, biting as much as they could in recompense for their dear ones the ladys fleet had been sending to the grave every night. Uncle stood up and that was no reprieve. He sat down, the story was the same. He blamed himself for his visit but no blame has ever solved a problem. If it does, it was not with the mosquitoes in that room. It was still dark in the morning when he left, and like the mosquito that narrowly escaped death in the spirit world, he vowed that whoever saw his legs on that premises again, should cut them off.    The way for purity is to be a child of God and it will make a lady realize that her body is the temple of the Living God. Knowing that the worst prostitute does not practise her profession in the church because it is the House of God, she preserves her body until wedlock. She and her spouse-to-be should discuss it boldly so that none of them will think about sex, not even dreaming about it. Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year in 2023! For further comment, Please contact: Osondu Anyalechi:  0909 041 9057; anyalechiosondu@yahoo.com