“Prof, someone gave me a cola-nut during burial in my village and I ate it. The following day, the cola-nut was still hanging in my throat, which made me feel very uncomfortable. For more than eight months, I lived with this demonic case, which rejected every medical attention. I was in serious pain and every prayer made for me by men of God was like water poured on a stone. But when I started reading your column and saw what God was using your anointing oil to do in many lives, I decided to order for it. I want to thank God for your life. When I used the oil, three days thereafter, I vomited the cola-nut and I am very strong now. God bless you, sir.” – Mr. Matthew, mathew.varghesse999@gmail.com “I am most grateful to God for what he has done for me through the anointing oil I bought from you. The evil spirit that comes physically to have sex with me for over 30 years has stopped and since I used the oil that mighty noise that usually disturbs me at night has also stopped. Above all, I gave the oil to my elder sister who has always had several miscarriages since her 13 years of marriage. It is a miracle that she never miscarried the pregnancy after she used your oil. She had a baby girl last week.” –  Shola Maduabuchi, kedeshola@yahoo.com At this point, I wish to bring your attention to a special place in the scripture Matt. 17:21, the Bible says, “Howbeit this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting”. The phrase, ‘this kind’ shows that there are other kinds. You need to know , in accordance with the laws of the prince of darkness, there are 400,000,000 kinds of demons in the whole realm of darkness. There is no doubt that the above biblical statements were made by our Lord Jesus Christ. He wants us to know that there are some types of demons that cannot go out except one prays and fasts. I am aware of the fact that some people cannot fast.  Now, if the spirit or the problem facing you is the type that cannot go out except you pray and fast, and you cannot fast, how then can you be free? There is no doubt that the fellow may not get out of the problem. If you cannot fast for your success, I urge you to, therefore, pray without relenting. In view of my past experience, I understood that any Christian who fasts and remains in the righteousness of our Lord Jesus Christ, the same can never be tampered with by any demon or any agent of darkness. This is so because the light of God will always be on his or her forehead. If there is any element of darkness inside you as discussed, to be free, you must starve the element by fasting. It is a spiritual fact that any element of darkness that is starved for 72 hours will die and be flushed off your body. Here is the mystery for your freedom, I urge you to take it. Be informed that these elements survive by what you eat. But you need to know that if you starve it for 48 hours, that is, two days, it will die. If you further starve it for another 24 hours it will be flushed out of your body. But if you starve it for only 24 hours, it will be struggling between life and death. What does this mean to you? Don’t forget the statement in Matthew 17:21. Maybe the object entered into you the time you ate any kind of food, rice for instance, brought to you by an agent of darkness. If the object entered into you via same process, if the rice was cooked with oil, Maggi, tomatoes, meat or fish, water and much more, if you fast 24 or 48 hours and break the fast by eating rice or anything cooked with the same ingredients which were used in cooking the said rice, the moment you break the fast with such food, the object becomes revived. But if you starve it for 72 hours without drinking water, the object will die and be flushed away from your system. If a man of God prays for you, the prayers will make the element dormant, but after some time it will be revived. Only prayers can banish it, ‘for howbeit this kind goeth not away except by prayer and fasting.’ By the grace of God, there is another process of getting out of this satanic web, the process of which shall consolidate your freedom. If you have any moving object inside your body system, you may wish to contact me and I shall send you a bottle of anointing oil, which you shall use to free yourself. It is of note, however, that so many people have been set free by the use of this anointing oil. I am very much aware of the fact that the Devil is fighting the freedom of God’s people. Many souls are suffering today due to the influence and activities of Satan and his demons. They have done many evils in the world today most of which are known to me consequent upon the degree of my movement in esoteric craft of metaphysical reality. My present experience in the path of light, however, made me to ultimately recognize the limited capacity of the arch entity (Satan) together with his cohorts. To this end, be informed that, in accordance with the planetary rule of esoteric cosmology, seven planetary spirits are set into motion by Satan (the god of this world) to monitor every human affair in the world. Each of the seven demons has a process of manipulating ones cycle of fate, in most cases they manipulate things that are not covered by the Glory of God. At this point, be informed that, in accordance with the principal rule of the principalities and powers of darkness, any business that is established in the world of man that is bereft of God’s glory is exposed to the ubiquitous manipulation or attack of these planetary spirits. Each of them rules for a period of 52 days, and then another will replace it. This period of 52 days will be characterized by unspeakable failures in the business. Now after the rulership of the first planetary spirit, another will take over and rule for another 52 days, so will the seven planetary spirits rule the business, life, marriage or any other thing till the period of one year. Now, 52 x 7 = 365. This simple mathematics shows that the entire lifetime of such person will be spent under demonic powers. At the end of the 365 days, other seven planetary powers will be assigned to do same for the same period of time till the person is saved or freed by the power of Christ. Jesus said, “If the son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be freed indeed” John 8:36. The Bible says, “It is the glory of God to conceal a thing, but the honour of kings is to search out a matter” Pro. 25:2. Earthmen, don’t forget that only the deep could be called into the deep and the secret things of the Lord are exposed to those that fear him. Consequent upon the aforementioned seven planetary powers that govern the affairs of men whose lives are bereft of divine protection from the Lord, it is very imperative to mention here that any business that is established on earth or any money borrowed to support any business in life on any of the dates that will soon be given in this passage, will never help to foster the business rather it will ruin the business. This is based on the degree of esoteric powers set into motion by the God of numbers and the god of this world. The Bible say, “My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge….Hos 4:6. O  ye great men of churches who are conscious of earthly  and ecclesiastical titles, be informed that upholding your bogus tradition bereft of profound wisdom together with your denominational errors in this connection will help to consolidate this numerological attack. God is God of numbers as we all know.