Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Bank of Industry (Bol), Mr. Olukayode Pitan and Chairman/CEO, Autosheck Oil and Gas Limited, Chief Benjamin Igwe, have described The Sun Awards as unique, while expressing delight for emerging as winners of Banker of the Year 2022 and Entrepreneur of the Year 2022 awards. Pitan, Igwe and 24 others will be honoured at The Sun Awards ceremony on January 28, 2023 at the Expo Convention Centre, Eko Hotels & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. Speaking separately in Lagos when the Management of The Sun Publishing Limited, led by the Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief, Mr. Onuoha Ukeh, presented them nomination letters, the duo pledged to do more for their organisations and humanity. Describing the honour as special, Pitan said, “We thank you for this award. We appreciate it because it is dear to us. We know it is a good award; that is why we are glad to receive it.” Pitan said he had, over the years, followed the track record and success story ofThe Sun, not knowing that one day he would be honoured by the newspaper. He noted that both within and outside the shores of Nigeria, the efforts of BoI were being appreciated. He explained: “Last year alone, we received four awards. We got the best Development Finance Institution (DFI) Award in Africa from the Bankers Magazine, an European Magazine based in London.” On his part, Igwe said: “I’m glad today that the management of The Sun appreciates our little effort and support for the economy of the country. I appreciate the honour being bestowed on us. “This award will motivate me and my staff to do more, to do more for our dear country. The award means a lot to us “ Earlier in his remarks, The Sun MD lauded Pitan and Igwe for doing the nation proud with their outstanding performances in banking and entrepreneursip. Focusing on Pitan, Ukeh said his emergence as Banker of the Year 2022 was based on his achievements . He said the BoI boss had grown the bank’s balance sheet to over N2.4 trillion, among other incredible giant strides recorded in six years of his tenure in office. The Sun MD noted that Pitan has been consistent in ensuring that BoI delivers on its mandate of supporting the industrial sector by providing long-term financing and counter-cyclical loans across industries. “In the last six years, BoI under your watch has promoted financial inclusion by supporting the expansion of various industries,” he said. Ukeh explained that more than ₦1.2 trillion had been disbursed to over 4.2 million enterprises, “creating over nine million estimated direct and indirect jobs between 2015 and 2021 through BoI’s direct financing and its strategic partnership with public and private sector organisations.” Some of the remarkable achievement of Pitan, according to Ukeh, included the raising and conclusion of various international loan syndications of more than $5 billion from the international capital markets since 2018. He said: “The bank in February 2022, concluded its maiden Senior Note Eurobond transaction of €750 million. This transaction was fully guaranteed by the Federal Government of Nigeria and also marks the first of such by any African national development finance Institution in terms of structure and size “The bank, again in August 2022, concluded a €1 billion guaranteed senior loan facility led and co-ordinated by the Africa Finance Corporation (AFC) and Standard Chartered Bank.” In the case of Igwe, The Sun MD said: “We know that as Chairman/CEO of Bensheck Nigeria Limited and Autosheck Oil and Gas Limited, you have added enormous value to the lives of hundreds of Nigerians who depend on your businesses for their livelihood. Essentially, you are passionate about lifting others by offering employment.” He acknowledged that Igwe had contributed immensely to the economic growth of Nigeria with a net worth running into billions of naira, emphasising: “In the last 14 years, you have grown your company to become one of the leading brands in the Nigerian lubricant market with its first-rate automotive range of gasoline and diesel engine oils.” Apart from Pitan and Igwe, others who will also receive awards are, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State and Mallam Mele Kyari, Group Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (Man of the Year); Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, Governor of Abia State; Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State and Governor Umaru Fintiri of Adamawa (Governor of the Year); Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State (Courage in Leadership); Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State (Political Icon) and Dr. Zainab Shinkafi-Bagudu (First Lady of the Year). Other award winners are, General Overseer, Omega Power Ministries, Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere; Chief James Chijioke Ume, Chairman, Unubiko Foundation (Humanitarian Service Icon); Mr. Festus Mbisiogu, Chairman, Shanghai Engineering Works Limited, Lady Ada Chukwudozie (Industrialistof the Year); Barr Ngozi Ekeoma, Chief Benjamin Igwe (Entrepreneur of the Year); Dr. Stanley Uzochukwu, Chairman of Stanel Group and Dr. John-Kennedy Opara, Chairman, CSS Ingrated Farms Limited (Investor of the Year). Also to receive awards are, Chief Kelvin Jumbo Onumah, Chairman of Sublime Group Limited (Hospitality Personality); Mercy Johnson-Okojie (Nollywood Personality); Chief Gabriel Igbinedion, Esama of Benin Kingdom, Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife, ex-Anambra State governor; Alhaja Sinatu Ojikutu, ex-Lagos Deputy Governor, and Alhaji Sule Lamido, former Jigawa State governor (Lifetime Achievement). Others are, Prof. Mohammed Sani Haruna, Executive Vice Chairman, National Agency for Science, Engineering Infrastructure; Dr. George Moghalu, MD, National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA); Dr. Richard Okoye, Chief Medical Director, Save A Mission Hospital Group, Port Harcourt (Public Service) and Mr. Olukayode Pitan, MD, Bank of Industry (Banker of the Year).