By Chinelo Obogo, Laide Raheem, Abeokuta and Romanus Ugwu,   Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, yesterday, endorsed Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP),as his preferred candidate for the 2023 poll. This came on the day  the LP candidate  expressed confidence that with the support of Nigerians, he will win next year’s election. Obasanjo, in an open letter addressed to Nigerians, particularly the youths, ranked Obi ahead of  other frontline candidates like Atiku Abubakar of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),  Bola Tinubu of All Progressives Party (APC) and Rabiu Kwankwaso of New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPC). He contended that the country at this time needed a president who is selfless, courageous, honest, patriotic and with outstanding leadership qualities, character and fear of God beyond what it has had  in the recent past. The former president said though none of the contestants was a saint,  but that when one compared  their character, antecedents, knowledge, discipline, and vitality that they would bring to the job of running the country, Obi had the edge over others. The former President said “One other important point to make about Peter is that he is a needle with thread attached to it from North and South and he may not get lost. In other words, he has people who can pull his ears, if and when necessary. Needless to say that he has a young and able running mate with clean track record of achievement both in public a private life”. Obasanjo  tasked  citizens  not be confused, gullible or fooled by the promises made by the other contestants. He described the last seven and a half years under President Muhammadu Buhari as tough for majority of citizens. He said the country was plagued with high level of pervasive and mind-numbing insecurity, rudderless leadership, buoyed by mismanagement of diversity and pervasive corruption, bad economic policies resulting in extremes of poverty and massive unemployment and galloping inflation. He said he was “constrained to write this letter to all Nigerians, especially young Nigerians, friends of Nigeria globally as well as our development partners because of the gravity, responsibility and implications of the collective decision Nigerians, both young and old, will be making within the next two months… “We have moved from frying pan to fire and from mountain top to the valley. Our leaders have done their best, but their best had turned out to be not the best for Nigeria and Nigerians at home and abroad. For most Nigerians, it was hell on earth. “Without prejudice but with greatest respect to each individual with utmost regard for the best for Nigeria and all Nigerians and from my personal experience, all the major contestants claim to be my mentees. I will not deny such positions since I have worked with all of them directly and indirectly in government. I have come to realise a number of factors in character, attributes and attitude that are necessary in the job of directing the affairs of Nigeria successfully and at a time like this. These characteristics or attributes are many, but let us be mindful of some key ones together. “From interaction and experience, and as mentees as most of them claim, I will, without prejudice, fear or ill-will, make bold to say that there are four major factors to watch out for in a leader you will consider to hoist on yourself and on the rest of Nigerians in the coming election and they are what I call TVCP: Track record of ability and performance; Vision that is authentic, honest and realistic; Character and attributes of a lady and a gentleman who are children of God and obedient to God; and physical and mental capability with soundness of mind as it is a very taxing and tasking assignment at the best of times and more so it is at the most difficult time that we are… “Most of us in good conscience can testify to competence when we see any anywhere. What is masqueraded as ’competence’ is self-interest and nepotism. We have a unique opportunity to correct ourselves by ourselves for the good of ourselves. Those who are preaching division, segregation, separation, and want to use diversity for their own self and selfish interest are enemies of the nation, no matter what else they may disguisedly profess or proclaim. The challenge is for Nigerian youths: If we fall prey again, we will have ourselves to blame and no one can say how many more knocks Nigeria can take before it tips over. To be forewarned is to be fore-armed. Future is not emotion,” he said. Meanwhile, Obi has expressed confidence that he will win the 2023 election. In a New Year message, he said he had travelled round the country and the world and engaged with Nigerians  and expressed the optimism that with the continued support of Nigerians, victory was certain for him in next year’s presidential poll. He described 2023 as a very critical year that would  determine the next direction of the country and called on all Nigerians to unite and join ongoing efforts in taking back the nation from  corruption, insecurity and nonproductivity. “I have travelled round the country and the world and engaged with Nigerians and I boldly say that we are at a turning point in our history. Together, we birthed a movement of Nigerians committed to taking back their country. In 2023, with your continued support, victory is ours. With the presidential election just about 55 days from today, Datti Baba-Ahmed and I reiterate our determination to serve Nigeria with love strength and faith and diligently implement our pact with Nigeria (manifesto) from May 2023 to create a new Nigeria, a renewed nation bound in freedom, prosperity, peace and unity. While Datti Baba-Ahmed and I are committed to lead, we need your support. We implore you to get your PVCs, come out with your family and friends on February 25 and vote for your future, vote Labour Party and vote Peter Obi/ Datti Ahmed… “This nation cannot continue in its all round retrogressive movement in the coming years, as that will result in its total collapse. 2023 is an existential year in the history of our nation. It is a year we all must unite against the continued abuse of our nation’s democracy and economy. The power is in our hands to take back our nation, this year, and make it work. I call on Nigerians to support me in saving our nation. My commitment is securing the country, unifying the nation and moving it from consumption to production. “I call on Nigerians to hold me accountable to my promises for a better nation, when I am elected. I have made a pact with Nigerians and I will not leave any of my promises unfulfilled. Nigerians can hold me accountable by my words of promise. Vote for the character, competence and commitment you can trust to secure and unite Nigeria.” Obasanjo’s endorsement worthless–Tinubu Presidential candidate of the APC, Bola Tinubu, has described as valueless and worthless, former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s endorsement of the presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi.          Director, Media  and Publicity, APC Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), Bayo Onanuga, in a statement said the party and candidate would not lose sleep over Obasanjo’s move. “We respect the democratic right of former President Obasanjo to support and endorse any candidate of his choice in any election. Except that he made it known formally in his New Year message, any discerning political watcher in Nigeria knows that Obasanjo’s preference for Peter Obi is expected. The endorsement is actually worthless because the former President does not possess any political goodwill or leverage anywhere in Nigeria to make anyone win a councillorship election let alone win a presidential election. He is a political paperweight. “He is also not a democrat anyone should be proud to be associated with. We recall that in 2003 and 2007 general elections when he was a sitting president, Obasanjo used all the coercive instruments of state at his disposal to railroad people into elective offices against the will of Nigerians as expressed at the polls.” “In 2007, he declared the polls a do or die affair after he failed in his bid to amend our constitution to have a third term. From our records, President Obasanjo has not successfully made anyone win election in Nigeria since then.  “Not even in Ogun State can anyone rely on his support or endorsement to become a governor or Councillor. We pity Obi as we are confident that Obasanjo can not win his polling unit and ward in Abeokuta for Obi in the coming Presidential election on 25 February, 2023,” the PCC quipped. His endorsement is not a political currency Peter Obi can spend anywhere in Nigeria because he is not a political force, even in his part of the country. “ Ex-president’s position personal- Atiku’s campaign The Atiku/Okowa Presidential Campaign Organisation has said the support of former president, Olusegun Obasanjo, for Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi, is his  personal opinion, which it saod does not reflect the position of majority of Nigerians. The campaign organisation, in a statement by its spokesperson, Kola Ologbondiyan, yesterday,  said Obasanjo was entitled to his opinion, but that he could not sway Nigerians who are  determination to rally round  the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP) candidate, Atiku Abubakar. Ologbondiyan  described Obi as lacking the capacity and experience at the national level to lead Nigeria given ongoing challenges. “It is therefore be extremely difficult for Nigerians, particularly the youth demography, to accept Chief Obasanjo’s opinion as the solution to the myriad of challenges facing the nation today because the last candidate he introduced, by his own estimation, failed Nigerians.Our campaign holds that none of the Presidential candidates has the experience, capacity, tenacity of purpose, presence of mind and readiness to serve like Atiku Abubakar.” “We want to state here that Chief Obasanjo is not a good judge of character. He is a man who considers only himself as the all-knowing Saint in Nigeria. Over the years, Chief Obasanjo has also convinced himself that integrity, honesty and all good virtues begin and end with him.”