Dear Prof, my mother was poisoned in her shop and has suffered for many years.  No medical or trado-medical assistance helped at all. I took her to the hospital and, after a week, the doctor called to inform me that she had passed on. I asked them to wait and not to deposit her body in the mortuary till I come. I went with the oil I bought from you. On reaching the hospital, I anointed my mother with it and prayed. After about eight minutes, she came back to life. Looking very healthy, she demanded food and was given, she ate and, today, she went back to her shop and anointed it with the oil. The following day, the woman that did that to her had stroke and started confessing of being responsible for what my mother went through. I shall tell you what happened by next week. I am still on my prayers, sir. – Mr. Joseph Chimankpa (Contact withheld) “I am so happy to inform you that God has answered my prayer through the use of your oil. I was so down financially and nothing worked for me. Any business I invested my money in all failed. I was duped at a place I was trying to borrow some money to support my business but the whole thing turned out to be a fraud. I continued in my struggles until I was introduced to a club that wanted to give me money but demanded my wife in return. I ran away but because I purchased their form they started threatening me spiritually. At a point, they sent an old man to my house by 4am and he came with a terrifying message of death that if I failed to complete the payment and initiation, they would end my life. My life became a thing that I could not explain. I was constantly living in fear. They wanted me dead at all cost. After a while, they sent another old woman who came and brought food items to my house. My daughter collected them and, before I came back, she cooked one of the edible items and ate and became very sick. My house was in total shambles. My daughter became very sick and all manner of prayers offered for her healing proved abortive. Yes, there was no improvement at all. By the grace of God, the battle continued until I lost everything I had but no life was lost. And I refused to join any secret club. Though they made my life very unbearable but after I contacted you and you sent some bottles of oil and consequently instructed me on how to use it on myself and family, so many things started unfolding. The strange visitors stopped coming. My daughter’s health condition was healed automatically and my wife stopped seeing all those evil forces and demonic birds around our house. After the prayer, God used a friend to re-establish me in my business. My brother, Uzorma, God will continue to bless you and keep you for us all.” – Mr. Kachi O., kachifo.group@gmail.com Still on the dedicated money, some money lenders do same. Some of them, before they lend you any money, they will first of all dedicate the money to demonic power so that your business will be progressive but you will not know how the money will be spent. If you have any property as collateral and if the same is greater than the loaned money, the manipulation will so be projected to you that you cannot afford to pay back to enable him take over the property. Many have made money through rituals and human sacrifices. If you loan money from such person, the spirit operating with him, which is the source of the money, will ruin your business. Because you are not a member of the cycle, therefore, you will not benefit from it at all. Such financial help will destroy your life and ruin your future.  The ongoing spiritual warfare in the world of man is more than the eyes can see. I am saying this because the devil and his empire of forces are busy putting people into bondage through various psychic and demonic means. Nevertheless, man must be saved. Last week, I exposed some days and months that business and other related life-transforming ventures should not be carried out. This is mainly for those outside the righteousness of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. If you are not rooted in the true knowledge of God through His Son Jesus Christ, then know that anything you establish on earth on any of the dates mentioned last week, shall not survive. If a child is born on any of that dates, if he or she is not made to be strong in the consciousness of Christ, he or she may not live long and if he or she lives long, it must be under a poor health and vigour. He who falls sick on any of the dates, will not easily recover. Any marriage contracted on any of the dates will suffer separation, divorce and perpetual quarrel and poverty. It should be noted here that if any person, no matter his or her personality, commences a voyage on such a day, he will surely return home sick or have an accident that will eventually damage his business and life. I am not saying this to infuse fears in any person, but my prime aim is to get your consciousness advanced in the right path so that you can be part of the ongoing battle against the bogus entities hitherto masquerading as angels of light. Yes, if you start any business, build or engage in anything that will have positive effect on your life on any of the days, you will be greeted with failures and disappointment. But for those that are in Christ, the Bible says, “There is therefore no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh but after the spirit…who shall lay anything to the charge of God’s elect? It is God that justifieth” Rom.8:1 and 33. Further to the above Biblical assertion, Paul concludes, “Let no man therefore judge you in meat, or in drink, or in respect of an unholy day, or of the new moon, or of the Sabbath days” Col 2:16. Therefore, Christians are not guided by any unholy or holy days. We should not forget that our faith is the victory that overcomes the world. Do remember also that God is the God of numbers and that He respects symbols (numbers) and coordinates the activities of men through numbers; as a result we should not be in a hurry to dismiss realities. During these mentioned 47 days, five days are especially very inauspicious on which no journey or any important thing should be undertaken. The dates are, 3rd of March, 17th of August, 1st, 2nd and 30th of September. It is very imperative to note however that three among the above five dates are very inauspicious and in accordance with higher principles of esoteric numerology, any man shedding blood on such a day will surely die within 10 days thereafter. Whether the blood you shed is approved by constitution (law) of your country or not, you must pay for it within 10 days. Those in the judiciary, military, police, etc., should take note. It is on secret records that some great agents of the dark world usually project certain elements to both monitor and devastate anything established on earth on any of the dates in order to add to the sorrows of mankind. The manipulation is so designed that whoever is born on any of these dates will die of violent death, or will pass through life in excruciating condition or consequently end up in deep public opprobrium. This can only be overcome through the precious blood of the Lamb,- Jesus Christ. You are humbly implored here not to negate this because many people have perished as a result of deep ignorance initiated by the prince of darkness. Do remember that the Bible says, “My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge…” Hosea 4:6. Therefore be wise and watchful. God said, “I form the light, and create darkness; I make peace, and create evil; I the Lord do all these things” Isa.45:7. You cannot question Him. Two months ago, I received a call from a man who consequently informed me that he was a very rich man and was into import and export business for a long time and had all that life has to offer. According to him, “Prof, your articles that I have read about four times now have truly opened my eyes and made me know what exactly is wrong with me. My problem started on the 30th of September, 2002, when I was returning from my business trip in Europe. I met a young lady who approached me and demanded for financial help. I gave her N3,000 for her transport as I was led. She took the money with her left hand and appreciated me and went her way”. The young man continued, “Starting from that day, my problems began. My containers were seized, everything started working against me. I took note of the money, and the date it all started. Beginning from that day, till today that I am talking to you, I have sold everything I had. What is remaining for me now is to sell myself. I must borrow money to eat and to make calls. I am dead, my brother. Please, help me. Someone is holding my N10 million for 11 years now. He has the money to pay me but keeps turning me about. Oga Prof, please, help me.” I patiently listened to him and asked him to arrange himself to pick up my anointing oil. After much argument, he did. I instructed him on how to do the prayer. He patiently followed my instructions and on the 29th of August the man called and informed me that the man owing him for eleven years called him.  Now hear our conversation, “…I am most grateful to God for your life. I have not finished the spiritual assignment you gave to me before the man called me. The night I used your oil, he called me the following morning and informed me that he was beaten and flogged by an angel in his dream for not paying me and that further delay to this will lead to his death. He said to me that all his body was paining him as he was talking to me as a result of the beating.  He has paid me my money and I shall start a new life with this money now…”