All Progressives Congress (APC) House of Representatives candidate for Dawakin Tofa, Rimingado and Tofa federal constituency in Kano State, Abba Umar Ganduje, has promised  effective representation of his constituency. Ganduje also promised to deliver dividends of democracy if given the opportunity to serve in the 10th Assembly. If elected, Ganduje will take over from Tijjani Abdulkadir Jobe, who is serving the federal constituency for the fourth term. Ganduje is an electrical engineering graduate of American University of Sharjah, UAE, and also holds a Master of Communications Management degree from Buckinghamshire New University, United Kingdom, with vast expertise in telecommunications sector in Nigera and abroad. Speaking with newsmen, at the weekend, in Abuja, Ganduje, who had recently empowered some of his constituents with various valuable items, said he would serve the people of the constituency diligently and impact lives positively if elected. He said his well-articulated programmes would be tailored to address the deprivations that the people of Dawakin Tofa/Tofa/Rimin Gadu constituency had suffered over the years under the incumbent lawmaker. “I wish to say this is not just the usual deceptive campaign theatrics of politicians. This is not also to engage in unfulfilled promises at every election season like this. I intend to serve through effective and efficient representation and by bringing the dividends of democracy to the people of the Dawakin Tofa/Tofa/RiminGadu constituency.” The APC candidate said he would, at all times, bring into focus the concerns of his people on the floor of the Green Chamber. “Getting to the National Assembly on my people’s mandate by God’s grace, my programmes will come through the promotion of legislation that will address our peculiar needs and through direct personal interventions to support the great people of my constituency.” Ganduje said his direct personal interventions would be focused on supporting the weaker members of the constituency in the areas of their health needs, education, empowerment, employment among others. When asked about his chances of winning the February 25 election, the APC candidate said he strongly believed the people of the constituency would support his aspiration and vote for him to represent them in 2023.