By Chinwendu Obienyi The year 2022 is gone and the year 2023 is here now. There is always this form of excitement to start a new year, which is why some of us start with New Year resolutions, usually a form of starting in a fresh and correct way. According to the Oxford dictionary, a resolution is a firm decision to do or not to do something. Hence, there are things to look at while starting the year 2023 on a fresh note. 1. Self-Review Take a moment to consider how the past year went for you. Despite 2022 being again full of unexpected moments, hopefully, you were still able to find time to accomplish the goals you set for yourself at the beginning of the year. Ask yourself what personally went well and what you would like to improve as the new year begins. What new skills or relationships did you develop that were a bright point in your year? What caused you stress this year? A self-review like this can help you better understand the highs and lows of the last year and set a precedent for a great year ahead. 2. Goal setting We all have plans for the new year and we have all goals and objectives we want to achieve. However, it is only 90 per cent of individuals keep their resolutions or plans until the end of the year. Most of us abandon the plan or the resolution in mid-January. Why is that? There is a reason behind this. Most of us are so busy and are focusing on the dream as we always think about it. While this is very good, there is a “but”, we forget the procedures of these goals. So, instead of dreaming of the goal, it is advisable we focus on the system. If one can set a goal and divide that goal in little day-to-day tasks, then you can achieve our goals easily. So it is better to have a big dream or big goal, split it into daily task in which you can do it every single day and by doing it, you become more motivated and it will become more easy to do that. 3. Having moderate expectations The Oxford dictionary defines “moderate” as an average amount of intensity, degree or quality. When we have too much of high expectations, when we cannot fulfill that expectation, we feel frustrated, we feel that we are not good enough and so we should not have too high expectations but at the same time, we should not have too low expectations because one might begin to think low of his or herself. Hence, what we have to do this year, is give ourselves a moderate expectation. Instead of focusing to be number one (which is good anyways), try and be the best at whatever you do.Thus we have to compete with ourselves as well as update ourselves. 4. Re-strategize again and again Sometimes, we plan to save a particular amount of money in a year and it does not work for us. The truth is it is very much okay and there is need to go back to the drawing board, revisit our initial plan and come up with a new plan or strategy. There is a popular saying that states that if plan A, B or C didn’t work out, then you try out other alphabets as there are 26 alphabets.  Hence, there is every possiblity that there will be changes in the Nigerian economy and so it is okay to re-strategize during the year for us to achieve our set goals and objectives.