...N200m presidential campaign fund story is fake –Umana  JOE EFFIONG, UYO More revelations have come to the fore with regard to  the  purported suspension of the minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Obong Umana Okon Umana from the Nsit Ubium LGA chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC),  as the leaders of the party have come out to disown the signatures on said the suspension letter. The “Notice of Suspension” signed by Johnson Udoka  and Monday John, chapter chairman and secretary, respectively, had premised the  Umana’s purported suspension on alleged anti-party activities. But Udoka and John in a letter titled ‘Disclaimer” and dated 25th Jan. 2023 as made available to our correspondent, informed the general public that the said letter of suspension was fake. “This is to notify the general public that the purported suspension of Obong Umana Okon Umana, the Honourable Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, from APC Nsit Ubium Chapter is not true and the said document does not emanate from us. Please disregard the said publication.” The duo said and signed. Meanwhile Obong Umana has refuted alleged personality clash between him and a former minister from the state as a mere rumour which should not be taken seriously by any right-thinking member of the party and the public. Speaking with Daily Sun, the minister said he has no problem with the said former minister rather they are working harmonious to deliver victory to the APC in the state. “We don’t have any problem; the rumour that our problem is because N200m presidential campaign fund is not true but a malicious rumour.  There is no such money. Rather we are working together as friends and brothers to ensure that the presidential campaign holding in Uyo on \Saturday is not only successful, but the party also clinches victory in the forth coming general elections in the state.” The minister advised members of the public to ignore every fake information concerning not only his purported suspension from the party, but also any imagined acrimony between him any other officials of the party from ward to the national level. ENDS Please enable JavaScript