From Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), has raised the alarm over what it called the deteriorating health condition of its leader, Nnamdi Kanu, who is still held in the Department of State Services (DSS). In its latest claim, as contained in a statement by the spokesperson of the group, Emma Powerful, the IPOB leader is alleged to be starved, and only fed with bread and water as his meal daily. Also, Powerful said Kanu has not been allowed to be taken care of by his private doctors, informing that the IPOB leader was being treated with drugs procured for him. The situation Powerful further said has led to serious health challenges for Kanu. Enumerating other health challenges faced by Kanu, Powerful said: “The secret police want to eliminate Mazi Nnamdi Kanu through a silent and systematic process of gradual starvation of giving him only bread and water twice a day and drugs abuse by providing him insufficient medication for his known ailment while in their solitary confinement facility in Abuja. “Their intention is to experiment and replicate the starvation of 1967-1970 on the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra. For the First time, we have seen Nnamdi Kanu complain for his life. He complained very sadly that he is dying slowly. He also complained bitterly that the DSS has subjected him to drug abuse as medication required for two weeks are provided for only eight days. “He complained that he hasn’t been allowed to see any doctor since the second week of December 2022, and the DSS has refused to take him to the doctor in spite of his deteriorating health. According to him, he felt that his internal organs are badly affected, yet the DSS have refused to take him to a hospital. “He also complained bitterly about pain and sound in his left ear, where he was tortured in Kenya before his rendition to Nigeria. “Our leader complained that if he lies down whatever he eats comes out from his mouth. He also said his intestines are bringing odous from his mouth, and he was afraid he may not survive it, but God Almighty will help him to survive it.”