• Ishaku, Bagudu’s wife, Ume, Ezeife, Mercy Johnson-Okojie Onumah, Okoye, Lamido, Mbisiogu, Ekeoma, Chukwudozie, Igwe, Uzochukwu also Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Enugu State Governor, Hon Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, Group Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited, Malam Mele Kyari, Governors Nyesom Wike (Rivers), Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), Douye Diri (Bayelsa), and 21 others will today mount the rostrum to receive various awards in Lagos. The award winners are being honoured by The Sun Publishing Limited in its annual ceremony, The Sun Awards, holding at the Convention Centre of Eko Hotels & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. The awards are to honour those who performed well in their respective endeavours. Governor Ugwuanyi and Mallam Kyari will receive the Man of the Year award, while Ikpeazu, Diri and Governor Ahmadu Fintiri will be honoured with Governor of the Year. Governor Wike will receive the Courage in Leadership Award. Political Icon Award goes to Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State, while First Lady of Kebbi State, Dr. Zainab Bagudu, is the First Lady of the Year. Dr. John-Kennedy Opara, Chairman, CSS Integrated Farms and Dr. Stanley Uzochukwu, Chairman, Stanel Group, are winners of the Investor of the Year Award, while iconic actress, Mercy Johnson, is Nollywood Personality of the Year. Mr. Festus Mbisiogu, Chairman of Shanghai Engineering Works Limited and Lady Ada Chukwudozie of Dozzy Group Limited won the Industrialist of the Year, while Barr (Mrs.) Ngozi Ekeoma, Managing Director of NEPAL Energies Limited and Chief Bensheck Igwe, Chairman,  Autosheck Oil Limited are winners of Entrepreneur of the Year Award. For the Public Service Award, Dr. George Moghalu, Managing Director, National Inland Waterways Authority; Prof Mohammed Haruna, Executive Vice Chairman, National Agency for Science Engineering Infrastructure and Dr. Richard Okoye, Chief Medical Director, Save-A-Life Mission Hospital, Port Harcourt, are winners, while Mr. Olukayode Pitan, Managing Director, Bank of Industry, is winner of Banker of the Year Award. The Humanitarian Service Icon Award goes to General Overseer of Omega Power Ministries, Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere and Chief James Chijioke Ume, Chairman, Unubiko Foundation, with Chief Kelvin Jumbo Onumah emerging as winner of Hospitality Personality Award. The Lifetime Achievement Award goes to Esama of Benin Kingdom, Chief Gabriel Igbinedion; former governor of Jigawa State, Allhaji Sule Lamido; former governor of Anambra State, Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife and ex-Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Alhaja Sinatu Ojikutu. The Sun Awards 2022 will have former Governor of Ogun State and media icon, Aremo Segun Osoba, as chairman, while on-air-personality, Abdulfatai Otori, and star actress, singer and television host, Chioma “Chigul” Omeruah, will be joint hosts. To thrill the audience at The Sun Awards is music sensation, Chike-Ezekpeazu Osebuka,  simply known as Chike, a singer, actor and songwriter. Chike, who has done ‘collabos’ with Simi and Flavour, among others, rose from being a contestant of music talent television reality show, Project Fame West Africa in 2015,  to prominence in the entertainment industry with his album “Boo of the Booless,” which included “If You No Love Me”, “Roju”, “Beautiful People”, “Running.” His “Nwoke Oma” track is also a chartbuster. Speaking on what to expect at The Sun Awards, The Sun Publishing Limited Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief, Mr Onuoha Ukeh, said there will not be a dull moment, as the audience is in for a night of entertainment, fashion extravaganza and celebration. He said The Sun Awards will be telecast live on the African Independence Television (AIT) and Nigerian Television Authority (NTA).