From Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, has said that he and his allies in the G-5 group are not playing God as to determine who becomes the next president of Nigeria. Wike stated this while reacting to media reports that God would determine the next president of Nigeria, and not the G-5 governors. The governor, speaking at the flag-off of Ogbo-Ihugbodo Road in Ahoada East Local Government Area yesterday, said that those behind the statement should have known that even if God gives power, it should not be given to the wicked. “Don’t be treacherous in life because you want power. God will never give power to the wicked. Our hands are clean; we have not done anything wrong. “All we are saying is, do things in a way all of us will have sense of belonging, that all of us will believe that we are together. “That is all we are saying. If saying so is wrong, then, let it be to God. But, we know that it is good as right takes, let left take also.” Wike explained that members of the G-5 believe in the omnipotence of God and always align their various affairs to such, which is why they keep getting stronger by the day. The Rivers governor pointed out that the person who said that it is only God and not G-5 governors who can decide who would be president seemed not to understand the background of members of the group. “We are alive today, we are where we are because of God. Nobody can even breathe air if not God, not to talk of holding position. So, nobody can tell us that it is only God, we know that it is only God that gives power. “But, our prayer is that God, don’t allow those who will sell off Nigeria in the next one second to be in power. Our prayer is God, don’t allow anybody that you (people) will have an agreement with and in the next two minutes, the person will change. “Our prayer is that Almighty God will not allow those who will betray their brothers when they have agreed with their brothers to do something. God, may you never allow such people.” He also noted that the person, who said there would be division among the G-5, had long been frustrated since May/June, 2022 in his expectation. “It has never worked and it will never work in Jesus name.  By sitting down to say that there will be division, I send back that prayer to you. “I don’t want to discuss them. I have told people, allow the sleeping dog to lie. If you don’t allow sleeping dog to lie, you too will not sleep.” He also pointed to another person, saying that they would handle members of the G-5 when they have decided where to throw their support. “These are the things that annoy us. Who is this person saying this? I heard them say that PDP is a responsible party. I agree. But, they left PDP in 2014 against 2015. “When they left and made PDP to lose our election. Today, we are struggling to take over power from APC. Who are those who made us to lose this power?” Commenting on the project, Governor Wike said that the Ogbo -Ihugbodo road is one of the many projects his administration has continued to deliver to restore Ahoada Town and the surrounding communities to what it used to be when it was a divisional headquarters. Wike stated that the jealousy expressed by some of his detractors was because of the capacity he has continued to demonstrate in governance, combining delivery of projects and attending to issues of governance with none suffering. He  threw a challenge to those who feel jealous to also show capacity and combine project flag-off, inauguration and governance simultaneously if they can.