From Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Atiku/Okowa Presidential Campaign Organisation has said it had no hand in the alleged problem between President Muhammed Buhari and the All Progressives Congress ( APC) presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu. The campaign, in a statement by its spokesperson, Kola Ologbondiyan, said it was pathetic that in less than 24 hours after Tinubu, at a rally in Abeokuta, allegedly accused the Buhari-led Federal Government of creating fuel scarcity and redesigning the naira to frustrate his ambition, the APC candidate was turning round to blame the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for his “woes.” The Atiku/Okowa campaign noted the APC candidate “having come to the conclusion, by himself, that he does not enjoy the support of President Buhari,” has resorted to allegedly blackmailing the president and inciting his followers to violence, so as allegedly derail the electoral process. “Is it not strange that Asiwaju Tinubu wants the world to believe that his caustic remarks against Buhari were intended for Atiku Abubakar and the PDP when neither Atiku nor PDP is involved in the monetary policies or the failure to arrest the horrifically unending fuel crisis. “It is important to remind Asiwaju Tinubu that in accusing the “powers that be” of creating fuel scarcity and hoarding the naira to truncate the election, he knew that President Buhari is the minister of petroleum resources and that all agencies of government in charge of prospecting and distribution of petroleum resources were under his (Buhari) office.  “Asiwaju also knew that President Buhari approved the redesigning of the naira and that issues of distribution of the naira notes are vested on the APC-controlled Federal Government and not on the PDP. It is, therefore, clear that Asiwaju’s verbal assaults against President Buhari is the official position of his confused, disoriented and disorganized Campaign Organization,” the campaign stated. Meanwhile, Atiku has accused  Tinubu of plotting to destabilise the country through a violent revolution and riots. Tinubu planning revolution, riots Atiku, in a statement by his Special Assistant on Public Communications, Phrank Shaibu, said Tinubu’s outburst in Abeokuta was “a prelude to the violence” the APC candidate was allegedly orchestrating. He noted  that  Tinubu’s rhetoric, while addressing a crowd at Abeokuta, does not “reflect someone who will accept defeat in the event of his imminent electoral loss. He recalled that the APC candidate said in Yoruba language: “This is a revolution. This election is a revolution. They don’t want us to have votes. They want to scatter it. Will you agree? No… I’m bringing a revolution.” The former vice president stated that “Tinubu is not too big and he has no immunity neither is he above the law of the land to be interrogated by the Department of State Services or by the police. To avoid bloodshed in the coming election, the APC flag bearer’s comments must not be waved aside. For clarity, in political science, a revolution is a “forcible overthrow of a government or social order in favour of a new system. “It is funny that Tinubu, who has been the national leader of his political party for over eight years is now threatening a revolution against a government being run by his party, one month to an election in which he is participating in. Essentially, he is saying if he cannot have it no one will.   “Recall that earlier in June 2022, Tinubu boasted in the same Yoruba language and also in Abeokuta about how President Buhari cried on national television following his electoral loses and how he (Tinubu ) made him president. It is not a coincidence that barely seven months after, he returned to Abeokuta to accuse and denigrate President Buhari and the APC-led Federal Government of trying to frustrate him.”  He added that information available to the opposition party indicated that Tinubu has allegedly paid some “activists” to stage protest in some strategic location in the country, including Abuja, ahead of the 2023 polls.  “On the surface, the protests will be about the lingering petrol scarcity which he had refused to comment on before the election. Some demonstrations will also be held against the Central Bank of Nigeria in order to force the apex bank to extend the deadline for the currency swap. “While it is the inalienable right of Nigerians to protest, Tinubu’s accusation that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was behind the petrol scarcity and the scarcity of the new naira note, a nonsensical claim given the fact that the PDP has not been in power for the last eight years.”