The candidate of the New Nigerian People’s Party (NNPP) in Aniocha Oshimili Federal Constituency election into the House of Representatives, Anthony Ochei (Onochieobodo), has expressed his displeasure over the removal of his posters and banners allegedly by thugs suspected to be loyal to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Onochieobodo decried the defacing and destruction of his campaign posters and banners in Ogwashi-uku and other areas in the Aniocha Oshimili federal constituency by thugs allegedly hired by his main challenger in the February 25 House of Representatives poll, Ndudi Elumelu of the PDP. Onochieobodo lamented that his banner at his uncle’s residence in Ogbe-Ahor  sighted by 5.00am was gone by about 12 hours later and maintained that investigation into the ugly trend shows that hoodlums connected to his political foe are perpetrators of the acts. The NNPP candidate explained that none of his posters is currently in Ogwashi-uku despite 3,000 copies pasted around the community not too long ago. A chartered and forensic expert, Anthony Ochei said hat he had to appeal to his supporters to remain calm and ignore the ugly, provocative and undemocratic tactics being deployed by his political rivals and detractors.. Onochieobodo, however noted that posters belonging to his opponents pasted on his street in his constituency about three weeks ago are still on the walls untouched. “From intelligence gathering, my main opponent has been fingered in the destruction of my posters. “A 20 by 10 banner installed right in front of my uncle’s fenced gate in my family compound in Ogbe-Ahor and shockingly it was removed before the dawn of a new day by those who know that there time in the House of Representatives will soon expire on February 25, 2023. “As at 12midnight the previous day, coming from a late political meeting, this very massive banner was still there, right in the front of my uncle’s fenced gate. Of the first and second set of posters pasted in Ogwashi-uku hovering around 3,000 pieces, hardly will you see anyone again. “When we  paste, two to three days later,   you go back to the place, my opponent posters are either pasted on them or they are torn completely. My opponent in their party posters pasted on the entrance to our street in the last three weeks is still there for me to see each passing day”, the statement from the law firm representing Anthony Ochei added. Onochieobodo held Joselina Ventures liable for jettisoning professionalism and cheaply dancing to the orders of the powers that be to pull down his billboards and failing to notify him, in what he described as “conspiracy of silence.” He served Joselina Ventures a one-week notice to redress the ugly development or risk facing law suit consequent upon failing to ensure that his campaign posters, banners and billboards which he paid the government regulatory agency for outdoor advertising are protected from wanton defacing and destruction by his opponents without protection from the government and its agencies.