From Geoffrey Anyanwu, Enugu    Jubilation has continued in Enugu following Friday’s judgment of the Court of Appeal, Abuja, which reinstated Hon. Chijioke Edeoga as the Labour Party (LP) governorship candidate in Enugu state. LP members, Edeoga admirers and Obidient faithful were seen across the state up to yesterday jubilating and making merry while discussing the judgment, which according to some of them who spoke to Sunday Sun, had cleared the way for victory for the party. The judgment has also changed the mood in Edeoga’s camp and had swelled the campaign train yesterday morning as many who were jolted by the lower court judgment and withdrew have all returned and many more joined. Even at Adani were the LP candidate went for campaign on Friday, one of the Obidient faithful who was there said, “As soon as the news of the Court of Appeal hit the community, there was wide jubilation and the venue of the campaign rally was filled up. “You know there is great fear in the PDP now over their own court case which is very, very dangerous for their candidate. They are no longer sure of what will happen.” An Abuja Federal High Court had earlier nullified Edeoga’s nomination and ordered for a repeat primary following a suit filed by Evarest Nnaji, who was claiming to be the rightful candidate of the party and LP went on appeal and challenged the lower court judgment. Delivering judgment on Friday, the Court of Appeal set aside the judgment of the lower court on the ground that Nnaji had no locus to challenge the result of the primary election as he did not participate in the exercise. Reacting to the judgment of the appellate court yesterday, an LP stalwart who gave his name as Ogbueshi Eze said, “We give God the glory because as we said earlier, the truth must surface and today the truth is out. God has shamed our detractors and opponent who are using our brother Odengene to distract us because they are afraid they will lose to us in the election. “The coast is clear now and you will see real campaigns, it is not business as usual, PDP will see that the people are tired of them in this state.” The LP Senatorial candidate for Enugu East Senatorial District, Owelle Oyibo Chukwu, described had described the judgment as the most sensible in the circumstance.