From Paul Osuyi, Asaba and Paul Orude, Baluchi The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Council, yesterday, cautioned Nigerians to be wary of the antics of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, and not submit to his overlordship as he is currently doing in Lagos. Spokesman of the PDP Presidential Campaign Council, Charles Aniagwu, gave the advice at a news conference in Asaba warning that Nigerians would be subjecting themselves to internal slavery if they allowed Tinubu to become Nigerian president. He urged Nigerians not to be distracted by cheap blackmail being sponsored by the APC and Tinubu. The PDP said APC was afraid of the acceptance of its candidate, Atiku Abubakar, by Nigerians, and has thus resorted to blackmails in partnership with one Mike Achimugu. “As a campaign council we are urging Nigerians not to make the mistake of submitting themselves to internal slavery by the APC whose Presidential candidate had since captured Lagos and what he is looking for is to expand his territorial control beyond Lagos to control the entire country in form of slavery.  For those of you who may not know, a number of the major projects and programmes in Lagos are controlled by this same individual…For such a person to aspire to govern our country, it will be very detrimental to all of us,” he said. Aniagwu, also said a viral video where the said Mike Achimugu claimed to be a former staff of Atiku, was intended not only to blackmail the former vice president but also to distract Nigerians from the real issues ahead of next month’s presidential election. Aniagwu who is the Commissioner for Information in Delta State, said Achimugu was never a staff of Atiku, adding that the corruption allegations he made against the PDP candidate in the video, were false. “In their unbridled quest to expand Tinubu’s grip on the state, they have cooked up stories. They have gone to wake a blackmailer and call him a whistle blower. The Mike Achimugu was not a staff of Atiku, he worked in one of the support groups and closely with the daughter, he was not employed by Atiku. And this is because they have seen that Atiku has captured the hearts of many Nigerians based on the conviction by a good number of Nigerians that Atiku has got what it takes to rescue the country and put it on the path of progress and development. And so for the likes of Festus Keyamo and Femi Fani-Kayode to be shouting and screaming that they want to get a petition, is to say the least, very uncharitable. Achimogu is a blackmailer who cannot be taken seriously,” he said. Meanwhile, Atiku Abubakar has assured christians of  safe under his watch if elected President come next month. The former Vice President said he believes in the integration of humanity at all levels and would do everything to promote unity in diversity.  Atiku spoke at the 2023 Extraordinary General Church Council (GCC) of the Evangelical Church Winning All, ECWA in Jos, Plateau. Represented by former Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, Atiku said God did not make any mistake in creating people and allowing them to belong to  different ethnic and religious backgrounds. “A divided Nigeria cannot achieve the purpose of God for us as a people, a divided country will only keep us in darkness and disunity. All through my life I have  lived and worked harmoniously with people of other faiths and ethnic affiliations with ease because of mutual understanding and respect. My business and political partners  come from different backgrounds with zero expressions of religious or ethnic sentiments. l have  never contemplated  same faith ticket throughout my political career. The Muslim-Muslim ticket adopted by some people is a recipe for disaster,” he said. Atiku appreciated Christians all over the country for their prayers and commitment to the nation and assured that he will not relent in cementing a cordial relationship between Christians and Muslims all the time.