From Adanna Nnamani, Abuja Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Agitators from the Niger Delta have backed and pledged their support for Mr. Peter Obi, the Labour Party’s (LP) presidential candidate, in the upcoming general elections.  Obi was referred to as the emblem of a new Nigeria in a statement issued by the coalition of agitators, which was co-signed by some of its leaders, including Dede Udofia, Ibanga Ekang, Ekpo Ekpo, and Ukpe Sampson.  The group, which goes by the name “Unyekisong Akwa Ibom,” claimed that based on his good track record, character, competency, and age, Obi was the most qualified of the presidential contenders.  Additionally, the agitators claimed that Obi would deal with the problems of Boko Haram and banditry in the north, the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), the Eastern Security Network (ESN), and farmers’ and headers’ disputes in the east.”Similarly the North has produced two Presidents, Alhaji Musa YarAdua, two (2) years and Gen. Muhammadu Buhari, eight (8) years respectively. The South South geopolitical zone has also produced a President  Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, for six (6) years.  “It will therefore be a grave injustice, marginalization, oppression and wickedness to deny the South East the opportunity to produce the next President of Nigeria. It is therefore not logical for zones that have produced Nigerian Presidents to still seek such mandate again even when such candidates lack strength and ability to discharge such functions. “That all the candidates presented by political parties for the forthcoming presidential elections are eminently qualified, but the only person with good records, character, capacity, young, energetic with deep knowledge of the challenges facing the citizens is Mr. Peter Obi.  “He is a symbol of a new Nigeria and we believe that giving him the presidential will be of great benefit to Nigerians as Nigeria will be returned to the path of infrastructural development, growth and prosperity. “The present security challenges in the country will be holistically addressed by Mr. Peter Obi, particularly Boko Haram and Bandits in the North; IPOB, ESN and unknown gunmen in the South East as well as Herdsmen in the Middle Belt, South West, South East and South South zones to ensure that Nigerian citizens enjoy safe and serene environment at all times.  “It is therefore not in the interest of our fatherland and future generation to vote a Nigeria’s President based on ethnic or religious sentiments as doing so would be disastrous for the country considering the present economic woes facing the citizens.  “We call on all the Niger Delta citizens especially the ex-agitators, present serving agitators and all the Niger Delta citizens to vote massively for Peter Obi as we trust that he shall ensure the full implementation of Niger Delta master-plan, job creation through industrialization, proper funding of the NDDC and Presidential Amnesty Office, full implementation of the third phase Presidential Amnesty Programme as well as implementation of the reintegration phase of the Presidential Amnesty Programme to the beneficiaries which the present administration is not sincere in its implementation proper.  “We want to state that the Coalition of Niger Delta Agitators is already working and willing to mobilize all the Niger Delta agitators, ex-agitators, youths and women in all the coastal, riverine and hinterland communities in across the Niger Delta states to vote massively for Peter Obi and ensure his victory at the polls as the man that ensure that a better Niger Delta and Nigeria is delivered to the Nigeria citizens.  “A vote for Peter Obi is a vote for competence, better Nigeria, stability, peace, infrastructural development, educational/technological advancement, safety/security, better and stabilized economy.”