Executive Vice Chairman, National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI), Prof. Mohammed Sani Haruna and Managing Director, National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), Dr. George Moghalu, have expressed delight over their Public Service Award 2022 nominations by The Sun, saying the honour will motivate them to render more selfless service to the nation. They described The Sun Awards as credible even as they hailed the newspaper for always standing on the side of the people and projecting the truth. The duo spoke separately when the Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief of The Sun Publishing Limited, Mr. Onuoha Ukeh, led a management team to present nomination letters to them in Abuja. Haruna, Moghalu and 24 others will be honoured at The Sun Awards ceremony on January 28, 2023 at the Expo Convention Centre, Eko Hotels & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. Haruna said his recognition by The Sun is a testimony that hard work pays. He said young people and the entire staff of NASENI will be spurred to give in their best, rest assured that their efforts will be rewarded someday. The EVC said NASENI was collaborating with critical stakeholders within and outside Nigeria to revolutionalise the technology industry in the country. He said: “For The Sun Newspaper to have documented some of the things we have been able to achieve means the public is watching. Some of the things we have achieved were seen before as impossible feats. We had to go out and do the job. “We have even gone outside to look for willing collaborators. What has helped us is that we have friends across. If we continue to pursue our research, we will achieve a lot that will benefit the country. “What you have done by this award is unique. You have motivated us to do more. Young Nigerians will see and realise that hard work pays. We value this award so much.” On his part, Moghalu said the award was unique as it is given to deserving Nigerians. Dedicating the award to staff of NIWA, he said the honour has challenged him to not only do more but also bring in new innovation into the administration of waterways in the country. He said: “I am not an award-enthusiast, but the truth about The Sun Awards is that they are not just like other awards. The Sun Awards are not ordinary awards but those that places responsibility. “I want to thank you because ordinarily, people go out of their way to lobby for awards but nobody told me anything about this one let alone provide the opportunity to lobby for it. I am sincerely very excited and happy. “I dedicate the award to my colleagues in NIWA because no tree can make a forest. I could not have done anything without them. The award is like challenging me to improve on the little I have done to deserve the award. I will continue to justify the confidence you reposed in me. “The award is for NIWA, not George Moghalu, because if there was no NIWA I would not have been the Managing Director. We believe strongly that the maritime sector is the way to go. “The potentials we have in the maritime sector are even greater than what we have in the oil sector. It is just a matter of investing in it and using it for the benefit of our people. I sincerely thank The Sun for this honour done to me.” Explaining what informed the choice of Haruna and Moghalu, The Sun MD the intervention of NASENI in the various sectors of national development are worth celebrating. Ukeh said: “We note that you have recorded several remarkable achievements as executive vice chairman of National Agency for Science & Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI), intervening in various sectors of national development of science and innovation, which climaxed in the recent inauguration of the President Muhammadu Buhari Technology Innovation Complex. For this feat, President Buhari conferred on you the national honours of Officer of the Order of the Federal Republic (OFR) and National Merit Award. “Notable among your achievements at NASENI are the successful take-off of NASENI Solar Energy Limited, which manufactures solar modules and related components; ongoing projects on establishment of transformer manufacturing plant; high voltage laboratory; development of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles and food processing machineries for agricultural purposes; electronic voting solution to curb electoral malpractices; the nationwide tractor recovery; innovative modular irrigation system; and adoption as well as domestication of future production technologies such as virtual reality, application of artificial intelligence, Advanced Manufacturing, CAD/CAM and additive manufacturing. “Worthy of mention is your bold response to the COVID-19 pandemic, where you spearheaded the development of the first Made-in-Nigeria ventilator, 3D face mask and automated environmental disinfectant spraying machines. “NASENI, under your watch, recently entered into partnership with Israeli, Japanese and Nigerian companies for the production of Nigerian made electrical vehicles in the near future. We are also aware that you recently signed an agreement with the China Great Wall Industry Corporation to establish a world-class transformer production plant in Nigeria.” On Moghalu, Ukeh said since he assumed office as the helmsman of NIWA, he had initiated many reforms in the agency. He said: “You have brought your wealth of experience and drive to bear, leading to many reforms and excellent performance of the agency. “The recent commissioning of patrol and ferry boats to enhance the operational efficiency of the agency is a step in the right direction. It is a move for which you have received commendations from not just the supervising ministry but also from well-meaning Nigerians. “Under your watch, NIWA has taken measures to mitigate the level of casualties during boat mishaps by deploying well-equipped ambulances on the Lagos waterways for example. “Earlier in 2022, through the collaboration of your agency with others, the federal government introduced a new transport code which compels boat operators, jetty owners and boat passengers to comply with safety measures while on the waterways. Those that flout the law are liable to seven years imprisonment. “Subsequently, NIWA has sustained an enlightenment campaign to ensure that waterways users are complying with the regulations. In addition to this, your agency has made remarkable progress in ensuring the safety of lives and goods on the waterways through collaboration with various security agencies. “We are also aware that under your tenure, the federal government has concession the Onitsha River Port in Anambra State to a consortium of investors under the Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement. The federal government is expected to earn about N23 billion within the concession period of 30 years.” Apart from Haruna and Moghalu, others who will also receive awards are, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu Statr, Malam Mele Kyari, Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (Man of the Year); Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State, Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State and Governor Umaru Fintiri of Adamawa (Governor of the Year); Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State (Courage in Leadership); Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State (Political Icon) and Dr. Zainab Shinkafi-Bagudu (First Lady of the Year). Other award winners are, General Overseer, Omega Power Ministries, Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere, Chief James Chijioke Ume, Chairman, Unubiko Foundation (Humanitarian Service Icon); Mr. Festus Mbisiogu, Chairman, Shanghai Engineering Works Limited, Lady Ada Chukwudozie of Dozzy Group (Industrialist of the Year); Barr Mrs. Ngozi Ekeoma, Managing Director, Nepal Energies Limited, Chief Benjamin Igwe (Entrepreneur of the Year) as well as Dr. Stanley Uzochukwu, Chairman of Stanel Group and Dr. John-Kennedy Opara, Chairman, CSS Ingrated Farms Limited (Investor of the Year). Also to receive awards are, Chief Kelvin Jumbo Onumah, Chairman of Sublime Group Limited (Hospitality Personality), Mercy Johnson-Okojie (Nollywood Personality); philanthropist and elder statesman, Chief Gabriel Igbinedion, Esama of Benin Kingdom; Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife, ex-Anambra State governor; Alhaja Sinatu Ojikutu, ex-Lagos Deputy Governor, and Alhaji Sule Lamido, former Jigawa State governor (Lifetime Achievement). Others are Dr. Richard Okoye, Chief Medical Director, Save A Mission Hospital Group, Port Harcourt (Public Service) and Mr. Olukayode Pitan, MD, Bank of Industry (Banker of the Year).