By Merit Ibe The Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) has announced the appointment of Ide John Udeagbala,  the National President and Council Chairman of NACCIMA,  as an Ex-Officio member of the Council of the ICC World Chambers Federation, effective from January 2023. Over 100 country members of the International Chamber of Commerce, World Chamber Federation voted in the past few weeks to elect members into the Council of the ICC-WCF. The World Chambers Federation (WCF) is ICC’s unique and truly global forum connecting, leading and inspiring the global network of chambers and their respective business communities. As well as strengthening links among chambers, as a non-political, non-governmental body, WCF is the backbone of the chamber community,  providing a platform for chamber leaders to communicate and collaborate with each other on matters of mutual interest and facilitating beneficial partnerships. Udeagbala will be working with Chamber Executives globally in supporting MSMEs in collaboration with ICC and contributing to the strategy to develop and reinforce chamber community.  He will be representing Nigeria and indeed Africa at the global level to promote MSME development. As president of NACCIMA, he has built bridges with chambers across the globe and formed formidable partnerships with Chambers of Commerce in Africa, Europe, Asia and the Americas. He led a delegation of some Nigerian Chambers of Commerce members to the 12th World Chamber Congress (WCC-12) in Dubai, where he recommended Global Fund purse to support Chambers across the world to mitigate emergency occurrences such as the effects of COVID -19, flooding and other consequences of Climate Change on businesses. Before becoming NACCIMA President, he had served as president of state and regional chambers of commerce, industry, mines and agriculture within the country. His vision is to connect and bring all SMEs in Africa to the global stage for benefits of all and ensure Africa contributes meaningfully towards m impact of global warming arising from climate change. He is committed to the advancement of WCF’s global goals.