Ben Dunno, Warri Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.   A group, South-South Ethnic Nationalities Assembly (SSENA), has endorsed the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ticket of Atiku-Okowa’s Presidency to rescue Nigerians from the eight years maladministration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) led government.   Announcing its endorsement at a press conference held in Warri, weekend, the group noted that it arrived at the decision after it had taken time to profile all the political parties vying for various political offices in the land and came to conclusion that only PDP would serve the interest of the region.     Speaking at the occasion, the National Coordinator of the group comprising of various regional groups, community leaders, activists, traditional titleholders, stakeholders, religious leaders, among others, Chief Favour Izoukumor, said that PDP administration considered the South-South region in the equation of Nigeria politics, than the APC led government.     While stating that Atiku-Okowa presidency would guarantee Nigerians restructuring and resource control which has been the yearning of the South-South people, he noted that these two policies remains very critical to the region.     According to him; “In arriving at this decision, we looked at some of the defunct regional political parties viz. NCNC and NPC, led by Nnamdi Azikiwe, Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa and Alhaji Ahmadu Bello respectively, whose programs, economic and administrative policies favoured the minorities of Edo and Delta provinces (Defunct Midwest region and later Bendel State) and by extension the whole Niger Delta region”.     “We recall that the first Prime Minister of Nigeria, Sir, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, saw to the creation of the Mid-West region, and subsequently the mid-West state, despite the resentment of some members of the political class during that time.     To buttress his point, Izoukumor said that under the 4th Republic, the Federal Government under the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) led by President Olusegun Obasanjo a former military Head of State, through to President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua and Goodluck Ebele Azikiwe Jonathan, provided extensive support to the South-South geo-political zone.     “It was under the leadership of these great men (Obasanjo, Yar’Adua, and Jonathan) regime that the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) was created, 13% derivation fund was allocated to the oil-producing Niger Delta states, the Presidential Amnesty Program, the Niger Delta Ministry, the Nigerian Maritime University of Okerenkoko, the Federal Petroleum University, Effurun-Warri, the Federal University of Otuoke and many others were created.     “These institutions and their policies were geared toward the development of our region. It is fair to say that the current peace and tranquillity in the Niger Delta is the product of the then-PDP-led Federal Government.     “With the glaring performance of the then-PDP-led government, Nigeria regained its rightful place in the comity of nations as a leader of the African continent. The Universal Basic Education Programme (UBE) was established. PDP brought about astronomical growth of the Nigerian economy, with a 100% GDP growth from 3% to 6%; resuscitation of the National Fertiliser companies in Kaduna and Onne (Rivers) as well as grew the excess crude oil account from a paltry sum of $2bn to $43bn, while managing to forge an $18bn debt relief deal with major creditor nations and groups, including the Paris Club.     “Worthy of note is how the PDP considered the South-south region in the equation of Nigeria politics, by making a minority ethnic nationality, Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, a Vice-President and subsequently President of Nigeria. It was the highest political office attained by a minority from the South-South, and went ahead to make him the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Under Jonathan’s formidable economic team, Nigeria’s economy was rebased for the first time in a decade, leading to the country’s emergence as the largest economy in the continent, after overtaking South Africa.     Izoukumor, expressed delight over Atiku choice of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as his running mate, saying that his choice was the best for the South-South.     “We are now in 2023 and the PDP has again demonstrated its ‘organicness’ and love for minority groups by picking Senator (Dr) Ifeanyi Okowa from Delta State as the Vice-Presidential candidate.       “Okowa symbolizes a bridge between the South-South and South-East. His adoption by the party was borne out of his sterling performance as a governor of Delta State. His giant strides are evident across the land and are visible to the blind and audible to the deaf. His landmark achievements in Delta State are evident, particularly in riverine communities, where his carefully thought-out programs and policies have created wealth for Deltans.       “The PDP is known for talent hunting, and they have done it again by picking Okowa in this coming election. Presently we believe this is the best for the South-South. There is no major political party other than the PDP and its candidate, Atiku Abubakar, have shown interest in the S/S and the Nigerian people, and with his charisma and willpower to pull Nigeria out of the quagmire of hopelessness and to rescue it for a better and greater nation.     “It is pertinent to recall that under the PDP government (1999 – 2007), during which Atiku Abubakar served as Vice President, and also as Chairman of the National Economic Council (NEC) (from 1999-2011), Nigeria recorded the highest economic growth in history. In 2002, Nigeria recorded the highest GDP growth rate of 15.33%.     “The PDP government initiated the fight against corruption through the establishment of anti-corruption agencies such as the EFCC and the ICPC. Under the PDP, Nigeria witnessed private-sector reforms in telecommunications, banking, and pension administration. It was the PDP-led government that paid off the foreign debts inherited by the civilian government.     “The chronicles of PDP achievements over those years cannot be written without His Excellency Atiku Abubakar getting a prominent mention, both for his tireless effort as a backbone of the reforms and as chairman of the National Economic Council (NEC).     “In addition, Atiku Abubakar’s wealth of experience in both the private and public sectors gives him an edge over all rival candidates in the 2023 elections. He has created thousands of direct and indirect jobs for Nigerians in his home state of Adamawa and other parts of the country. Atiku has already pledged a whopping sum of $10 billion to small and medium-sized businesses to create jobs that will solve the unemployment crisis we face, if elected president.     “H. E Atiku again, promised to restructure Nigeria if elected president. We must recall that the critical demands of the people of the Niger Delta over the decades of marginalization have been restructuring and resource control, as were the cases during both CONFABs convened by former Presidents Obasanjo and Jonathan.       “One of the demands of the people of the Niger Delta presented to the Nigerian government was to restructure Nigeria, so that the people of the Niger Delta would benefit from their God-given natural resources. We are aware that of all the candidates and political parties, only PDP’s Atiku has categorically promised Nigerians restructuring and resource control. We believe that this will bring peace and transform the Nigerian economy, as it would galvanize all regions to explore their options and available resources for their growth and better lives for their citizens.     “For the aforementioned reasons, we, the South-South Ethnic Nationalities Assembly, hereby endorse Atiku/Okowa PDP 2023 presidential ticket to rescue Nigeria”.   End     Captions; Pic 1 Shows; The Group National Coordinator, Chief Favour Izoukumor being flanked by Chief Alwaye Oweredaba (River State), Dcn. Robert Igene, National Publicity Secretary (Edo State), Hon Eno Udongwo, National Deputy Coordinator (Akwa-Ibom State), Mrs Sambo Patricia, State Coordinator (Bayelsa State), Hon Victor Okokon, National treasurer (Cross-river State), at the news Conference held in Warri, Weekend.