Fast rising rap artiste, Molt’N, has released a six-track rap EP titled, The OutSet, which has been receiving commendable responses among music lovers. In a recent interview, the young artiste said it was heart-warming that only a couple of weeks after the release of The OutSet, her music was already attracting attention and doing great numbers on all streaming platforms. Molt’N’s love for rap music began at a young age when she was exposed to a variety of genres. She was particularly drawn to the expressive nature of hip-hop and rap, which allowed her to use Wordplay to tell stories and express emotions in a raw and unedited manner. For her, writing lyrics and performing rap songs is a way of life that allows her to motivate, inspire, and address the diverse issues people face individually. Molt’N’s influences in the rap genre are wide-ranging, including artistes like BoneThugs n Harmony, Redman, Missy Elliot, and Lil Kim. She also admires the artistry of Kanye West. Molt’N strongly disagrees with Wizkid in his recent statement that rap is dead, and she did not hesitate to explain why: “I’d like to first state that I am a Wizkid fan and I believe his Made in Lagos album was a great one. One may opine that we’ve had a decline in the number of rappers who are prominent in the industry, for several reasons. However, his generalisation about rap being boring and dead is simply his opinion. An opinion does not necessarily qualify as a general standard. “Rap is one of the purest forms of verbal artistic expressions and has such a variety of sub-genres that are very popular and widely enjoyed, so to say the genre is dead is largely inaccurate,” she stated. Molt’N believes that she is unique as a rapper due to her distinctive voice, storytelling abilities and wordplay. She approaches each song differently, experimenting with different beats, sounds and melodies. Molt’N’s style is a “ripple effect” of the diverse music she consumes, reflecting her multifaceted approach to her art. In addition to her work as Molt’N, she also has an alter ego, Netlom, which represents her love for singing. The name, Molt’N itself is derived from the word “molten”, conveying the idea of a multifaceted entity that can easily adapt to any genre or concept. Molt’N feels free to experiment and be multifaceted in her musical pursuits, and her love for music extends beyond the confines of any one genre. By her own admission, she is truly passionate about rap and the role it plays in her life. She finds that it allows her to express herself in a raw and authentic way, and she is dedicated to continuing to evolve and grow as an artiste. Whether through her work as Molt’N or Netlom, she is committed to sharing her love for music with the world. Molt’N EP was produced by DonL37, distributed and promoted by Prime88 Concepts.