By Chinwendu Obienyi Access Holdings Plc, yesterday, said it is working towards raising its customer acquisition to 100 million for in retail business by 2027. This was even as the company revealed it will expand its footprints to 26 countries, including at least three countries within the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), in addition to supporting trade in United Kingdom, France and the United States of America. The Group Chief Executive Officer, Access Holdings Plc, Herbert Wigwe, disclosed this to newsmen at the launch of its 5-year Strategic Plan in Lagos on Wednesday. Wigwe said that the bank has experienced rapid growth from being positioned 9th in 2007 to becoming number one in 2022. He noted that even though the Corporation has not achieved all its objectives, it has become more analytical and can do more in terms of achieving all it wants to achieve. “The customer acquisition drive to hit 100 for the retail business by 2027 will continue, as we migrate the majority of customers to digital platforms by 2027 across all touch points. Our primary focus on trade is to leverage established presence across trade and financial hubs round the world to continue driving trade outputs presence in London, Dubai, Hong Kong, Lebanon, Beijing, Mumbai and extensive footprint across the continent,” he said. Wigwe also noted that the Corporation will further support intra-Africa trade in addition to looking to partner with Development Finance Institutions (DFIs), International Financial Corporations (IFC), Quasi equity, hydrogen among others which will be responsible for the increased bid to raise capital. He further revealed that Access Corporation’s ambitions will be supported by seven key enablers which will include; customer experience, digital technology, data analytics, risk and capital, communication, ESG, people and culture. According to him, this will ensure Access Holdings executes seamlessly, becoming a top 5 financial services institution in the continent by the end of the strategic cycle in terms of revenues, asset base and on a balanced scorecard basis. He also revealed that it  will continue to invest in countries with less inflation rates, while being committed to driving financial inclusion across the globe. “Access Holdings will be in the eye of the storm, having transformed to become a leading financial and ecosystem player, with its core business as the foundation. We want to be truly known as a global player in the market.”