Labour Party (LP) candidate for Idemili North and South federal constituency, Uche Harris Okonkwo, has called on Nigerians to vote for the party’s presidential candidate, Peter Obi, and Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed, the vice presidential candidate in the February election.     He called on Nigerians of all voting age and gender, religion and culture to ensure the nation’s leadership tragedy does not go beyond the current afflictions. “We should say ‘Never again’ unequivocally, and proclaim our liberty for better governance so clearly abundant in the Obi-Datti presidential ticket of the Labour Party,” Okonkwo said. Okonkwo spoke at the presidential campaign podium with Obi and Datti where all the party’s candidates in the state were present to receive the man whose first class structure remain the massive OBIdient people everywhere. Addressing the crowd, the frontline youth ambassador, said: “Nigeria has had enough baptism of fires of failures and enough broken promises for a lifetime. We have been fed too much lies from men without conscience nor character, men denied their vigour yet insisting feebly to heal the land. Hope is no longer hopeful, because deceit is their only exchange for our common trusts. Now is the time for the baptism of life and prosperity so sure in Obi, and very secure in Datti. So, I ask and beg you all Nigerian youths and people, to hold fast to your resolve to seize this moment now, and score that winning goal on February 25, through the Labour Party.” Obi and his running mate, Datti, who were swarmed with peculiar home coming affections were touched with Okonkwo’s vision, clarity and determination, noted that appreciating his audacity of purpose by voting for him overwhelmingly, as all other LP candidates too, was indeed the pillar to make their task to take Nigeria from consumption to production much easier and quicker.    Okonkwo, who later spoke on his core legislative agenda, revealed that, Idemili North and South will have evolutionary representation never experienced before, with direct impacts on improved security and crime reduction, youth entrepreneurship through expanded digital learning and skill acquisitions, healthcare for the aged and vulnerable, and wider educational inclusion for all youths in business, farming and tradesmen. In a statement by his consulting media office and signed by Collins Steve Ugwu, Okonkwo thanked his constituents specially for their faith in him, assuring that with their dedicated goodwill and inspirations, their Youth Expressions for Service mandate will score victory for the party.