The Independence Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) has rated the Federal College of Education (Technical), Umunze, Anambra State, high in its evaluation exercise of federal ministries, departments, and agencies (MDAs) for the year 2022. The commission scored the college 77.38 per cent and commended the institution for the structures and processes put in place to promote efficiency.  In a letter signed by the director of System Study and Review Department, Abbia Udofia, on behalf of the ICPC chairman, the commission expressed satisfaction with the performance of the college.  The letter, titled “Deployment of Ethics and Integrity Compliance Scorecard (EICS) and ACTU Effectiveness Index (AEI) in Federal Ministries, Departments, and Agencies 2022,” was dated December 12, 2022.  Part of the letter read, “Sequel to the deployment, scoring and ratings of assessed MDAs, your organization had a score of 77.8%, which connotes substantial compliance on the ethics and integrity compliance scorecard (EICS) and a very effective status in the Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit Effectiveness Index (AEI), based on evidential submissions made by your organization.” The commission further encouraged the college to maintain the standard to ensure consistency in its ratings on the EICS and service delivery, while improving in other areas. It also charged the institution to put in place an effective disciplinary, sanction and reward system for staff working in the institution.  The ICPC further tasked the college to improve fraud prevention strategies such as constant internal and external auditing, and periodic system reviews. The college was also charged to continue to support the Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit, chaired by Mrs. Bridget Okpalike, to deliver efficiently on its mandate.  Recall that the institution was also rated the best in the SERVICOM Compliance Evaluation (SCE) out of the 21 Federal Colleges of Education and FCT College of Education, Zuba in 2019.   In the letter of commendation to the college, signed by the National Coordinator/CEO SERVICOM, Nnenna Akajemeli, the agency stated as follows: “I write to officially commend the efforts of the provost and management staff of Federal College of Education (Technical) Umunze, Anambra State for the provision of quality service delivery which has translated to the college being the best among the evaluated colleges of education.” While responding to the latest scorecard by the ICPC, the Provost, Dr. Theresa Obumneme Okoli, said her administration set up structures that encouraged due process and transparency in the day-to-day running of the institution.  She said her administration inaugurated and empowered the Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit (ACTU) as an effective monitoring mechanism in the college.   She thanked the members of ACTU in the college for their diligence, dutifulness, and thoroughness in the discharge of their official duties and assured them of the support of the college management.  “This monitoring mechanism provided an effective check for financial leakages, encourage transparency, improve service delivery, and reprimanded or sanctioned erring staff. It is on record that our college has zero tolerance for corruption. I am glad that these efforts are yielding the desired results”, she said.  Okoli said her administration introduced a reward system, where the outstanding staff was identified and rewarded for their honesty and special service rendered to the College.  “When I assumed office as provost, I made staff welfare my priority. We will continue to do our best to enhance capacity building among staff and ensure the growth and development of our college,” she added.  The provost further commended the ICPC for the dispassionate evaluation exercise, while promising that the institution would leverage its present position to consolidate a transparent and efficient service delivery system.