From Abel Leonard, Lafia Nasarawa state government says it has  commenced preparatory works on a new 3000 capacity multipurpose hall for National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) orientation camp in the state. Gov. Sule made this known at the swearing in ceremony of the 2023 Batch ‘A’ Stream I orientation course held at the Magaji Dan Yamusa NYSC Permanent Orientation camp in Keffi local government area of the state yesterday. Sule represented by Mr Lucky Yargwa, Nasarawa state Commissioner for Youths and Sports Development said he had been duly informed of the challenges confronting NYSC in the state especially the inadequate capacity hall to cater for Corps members during the orientation course at the orientation camp. He said this development informed him to direct the relevant ministry in the state to commence preparatory works on a new befitting 3000 capacity multipurpose hall that would conviniently accommodate all corps members and NYSC officials during the orientation course and other engagements. “Therefore, there is an urgent need for a 3000 capacity multipurpose hall. I wish to inform you that I have given directive to the relevant ministry to commence preparatory works on a befitting hall.  “I want to assure you that on no distant future building works will commence. We will do everything within our powers to make the camp more conducive,” he said. Sule described the Corps members who were in the state for the orientation course as patriots for leaving their homes to serve their fatherland in Nasarawa state, which was hitherto unknown to some of them all for the good of the country. “I wish to assure you that you are at home. The hospitable people of Nasarawa state are ready to receive you at the end of your orientation course.  “Let me also assure you that your security is guaranteed. Security of every resident of the state is one of the priorities of my administration,” he said. He then enjoined them to pay attention to all activities and programmes lined up for them especially lectures which are on topical national issues and the NYSC scheme itself. Also speaking, Hon. Abimiku Bala, Chairman, NYSC Nasarawa state Governing board assured the corps members that their stay in the state will be memorable given the priority of the state government to their safety and wellbeing. “Let me reiterate that you have been posted to one of the most peaceful states in our country. Interestingly, our people are lovely, accommodating, friendly and are well known for their hospitality,” he said. Bala who is also the state Commissioner for Special Duties, Legal Matters and Youth urged the corps members to always display high level of maturity in everything they do while on camp irrespective of it’s regimented nature. “My humble self and members of the governing board will be glad to receive good news about your comportment and maturity during the course of your stay here,” she added. In his address, Alhaji Abdullahi Jikamshi, Coordinator of the scheme in the state revealed that so far, 1158 comprising 637 makes and 521 females had been duly registered. “Since their arrival on camp, these corps members have not only adjusted themselves to camp life but have also shown keen interest in all camp activities.  “They have displayed a high sense in  discipline, tolerance and proper understanding of the reason they are here which is indeed very commendable,” he said