From Tony Osauzo, Benin  Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, yesterday, urged the people of Edo State to vote for him in the February 25 election, saying he has the knowledge to create wealth and prosperity for the country.  This is as he said former president Olusegun Obasanjo was not qualified to recommend or endorse anyone as President of Nigeria “because of his failures.” Speaking at a campaign rally at the University of Benin Sports Complex in BeninCity, Tinubu said Nigeria has been blessed by God, but just needed the right leadership.  He said he possessed the requisite knowledge to do what he did in Lagos State in Nigeria.  Speaking with specific reference to Edo State, the the APC Presidential candidate noted that the state was blessed with minerals and raw materials like rubber and oil palm, assuring that he would turn them to prosperity.  Besides, he said if elected, he would ensure small scale lending, encourage capital formation for the people and create jobs and convert ‘Yahoo Yahoo boys’ in the state to tech experts.  “We can climb Kilimanjaro, we will defeat poverty, we have the knowledge, we have the brain. I am an expert in finding the way where there is no way. If you want prosperity elect me, if you want security elect me, if you want skills to become rich, elect me,” he said.  Tinubu further urged Edo people to support the Royal Museum project, promising to contribute financially to the project. He also promised to pursue payment of reparation for Benin artefacts.  Tinubu recalled how he brought Enron Power to generate electricity and solve the power problem in the commercial nerve centre of the country but the project was frustrated by the Obasanjo-led PDP government. The APC Presidential candidate while commenting on ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo’s endorsement of Peter Obi said:”Can Obasanjo recommend a leader for anyone in Nigeria? A man who does not know the way cannot show the way. Obasanjo who is endorsing Obi, does not know road?”