From Aloysius Attah, Onitsha   The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) Media Warriors Forum has tackled acclaimed Anambra political godfather, Chris Uba over his recent comment where he boasted that he made Ngige, Obiano and Soludo governors.   National Coordinator, APGA Media Warriors Forum, Evangelist Chinedu Obigwe in a statement released in Awka yesterday described the statement credited to Uba as falsehood from the pit of hell that lacks any iota of truth.     Obigwe said Chris Uba must have made the comment under the influence of something at the venue an empowerment programme held at Nanka community, Anambra State.     He said that what Uba said cannot be substantiated noting that it is a public knowledge that Chris Uba played major role in Dr Chris Ngige emergence as Governor and also did the same thing for Peter Obi when he fell apart with Ngige.   He said that as for Obiano and Governor Soludo, Chris Uba cannot substantiate his claim that he had a hand in their emergence as Governor.   “Chris Uba played zero role in Soludo emergence as Anambra Governor because he reconciled with Andy Uba his brother, supported him in the 2021 governorship election but both of them failed woefully.   “Another thing I will say is that Chris Uba should make himself a Senator since he is claiming that he has been producing Anambra State Governors single- handedly from 1999 to date. He contested for Senate in 2019 and lost shamefully.   “This is the second time Chris Uba is bulldozing his way undemocratically to emerge as the Senatorial flag bearer of PDP for Anambra South Senatorial district in a general election. He should not always stop at bulldozing his way to pick PDP tickets, he should prove that he has electoral value by going ahead to win the main election and emerge Anambra South Senator.   “As at today in Anambra, Chris Uba does not have electoral value rather the only thing he can boast of having is nuisance value. I say this because I know that it is not possible for him to win especially now that rigging is no longer possible because of the use of BVAS machine”.   “Chris Uba should stop over rating himself because doing that will not make the electorates to consider voting for him. The incoming Senator for Anambra South remains Hon Chris Azubogu” Obigwe said.