From Tony John, Port Harcourt Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike said the resignation of former Minister of Health and member of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Professor Alphonsus Bosah Chukwurah Nwosu, from the party, was in further support to G-5 governors’ demand for equity, fairness and justice. The governor warned that if the party remains unyielding in zoning the office of the national chairman to the South, then, it should also be willing to face the grave repercussion. He made the declaration when stakeholders of Ogu/Bolo Local Government Area paid a solidarity visit to him at Government House, Port Harcourt on Saturday. The governor stated that he has continued to challenge the party to terms with the fact that everybody is equal in the country with nobody being a second-class citizen. “I have continued to challenge them. What is the problem? What are we fighting for? What I said and will continue to say is that all of us are from this country. Nobody is a second-class citizen. “We are agreed that this is how our party will be. Recently, Prof ABC Nwosu resigned from the party saying that his conscience will not allow him, that the constitution of the party is clear, if you take this, these other people will take that. Why now are we saying that we won’t do it again?” Governor Wike spoke further: “What the people are saying is look, you have taken this, let these people take that and you are saying you will take all. If you take all, you will also face the repercussions.” The Rivers State governor declared that anybody fighting the state will experience defeat. He maintained that God has blessed the state so much that he would not allow its adversaries to become victorious because the protective wall still remains difficult to penetrate. Governor Wike stressed that even if Rivers State loves peace, it cannot be intimidated and made to succumb to those who just want to milk it and deny its rightful place in the scheme of national politics. “You cannot fight anybody that God has blessed. God has blessed Rivers State. Anybody fighting Rivers State, you are fighting yourself. “Nobody can intimidate us. No one state in this country can intimidate Rivers State. If you want to fight us, we will fight you to the last. “If you want to make peace with us, we will make peace with you to the last. But, thinking that anybody will come and intimidate us and then we will chicken out, that is not possible.” Governor Wike flayed people like Senator George Thompson Sekibo for pitching against the interest of Rivers State and wondered what benefit he could attract to his people. The Rivers State governor described Senator Sekibo as an ungrateful politician who believes that only he should be the leading light in his local government. Governor Wike made reference to the support he gave to ensure that Mr Akin Fakorede, the former head of the notorious SARS team in Rivers State, did not succeed in stalling the announcement of the 2015 senatorial election and footing the legal fees through the election tribunal for him. The Rivers State governor insisted that it was time the people of Ogu/Bolo local government and indeed all Rivers people stand up together, and boldly too, against those who were working against the interest of the state. Governor Wike announced the award of a contract for the construction of Eli Town landing jetty, and the Eteo-Ogu Road in Ogu/Bolo Local Government Area. The governor also assured the payment of reminder contractual sums in the coming week for the Remodelled Junior Secondary School in Ogu, sandfilling project, and Kera-K-Dere Road (50%) paid already. Governor Wike informed that a 100 per cent sum has been paid for the Kpogor-Wakama Road and urged the contractor handling the project to return to the site and speed up the work. The governor stressed that governance is about giving the people confidence, and fulfilling promises made to them. He told them to be ready to return 100 per cent votes enthusiastically same way they had received projects from his administration, so that the consolidation team that would be headed by Siminialayi Fubara, the PDP governorship candidate, will win at the polls. In his remark, Rivers State Commissioner for Local Government Affairs, Boma Iyaye, acknowledged that the Wike’s administration has given to communities in Ogu/ Bolo Council more projects than they ever requested. While pledging their support to Governor Wike, he said they would await his directive on the presidential candidate to vote in the forthcoming election. Reading their address, the Amayanabo of Bolo Ama, King Acheseinimie Frank, said governor Wike is a systematic source of inspiration to all Rivers people because he has courageously improved the socioeconomic and political fortunes of the state.