From Obinna Odogwu, Awka Former representative of Ogbaru Federal Constituency in the National Assembly, Afam Ogene, has cautioned the All Progressives Congress (APC) to stop its unwarranted attacks on former President Olusegun Obasanjo. He also cautioned the APC to stop its attacks and uncharitable comments against Chief Edwin Clark and Pa Ayo Adebanjo who are leaders of Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) and Afenifere respectively. The trio had, on different occasions, endorsed the presidential aspiration of Mr Peter Obi, the Labour Party (LP) candidate for the forthcoming election, saying Obi was the best man to govern Nigeria. Ogene said the criticisms from the ruling party negate the values of African culture and principles of democracy that thrive on plurality of opinions and freedom of choice. He stated this  in a statement issued to Daily Sun yesterday, saying  that the three elders had done what they were supposed to do by showing the country the way to go for its own good. “In doing that, Obasanjo and the other revered elders have fulfilled two core responsibilities as political leaders, opinion moulders and elders in an African society: to point to the younger generation the road to travel, as well as avoid sitting on the fence, by not being ambiguous about their position on such a critical national issue. “Such a virtue, rather than being disparaged in the manner the APC and its agents have done, ought to be applauded and emulated by all. “It should be noted that Obasanjo as a former Head of State and former President, who, from a humble beginning, reached the pinnacle of his first profession, the military; and the zenith of political power in Nigeria, as elected President, in making his political choice of supporting Obi,  is neither in search of wealth, power nor relevance. He has seen it all. “To him Pa Adebanjo and Clark, at their current ripe old age and unquestionable international recognition and contacts, are eminently qualified to be ascribed the role of ‘moral conscience of the nation.’ “Their role, therefore, is to simply point the way forward, while it is entirely up to the Nigerian electorate to make their individual choices. And hopefully, live with whatever choice they make, one way or another. “After all, a time honoured African proverb  proclaims that, what an elder sees, sitting down, may remain illusionary to a younger person, even if he climbs the tallest tree. “As a matter of fact, those hirelings and their principals who are currently attacking these eminent Nigerians have more than once, sought their endorsement in the quest for higher office. “The orchestrated media savagery must, thus, be called off now, else Nigerians would be left with no choice but to see the perpetrators for what they truly are: a bunch of desperate power mongers, for who foul is fair”, Ogene surmised. lead to a better future for the teeming youths of the nation, who without any iota of doubt are desirous of positive change.