From Paul Orude, Bauchi No fewer than 18 people have been burnt to death  in a multiple  crash that occurred a few kilometers to Nabardo village on Bauchi-Jos road. The Federal Road Safety Commission, Bauchi State Sector Commander, Yusuf Abdullahi, said  the incident occurred on Wednesday at about 4.40pm. Abdullahi said that it involved two commercial vehicles, a Toyota Hiace bus,with registration number: FKE 688 YC,and a MAN Trailer. He said that the bus had a head-on collision with an oncoming trailer, and immediately went into flames. He said,  21 occupants, comprising 18 male adults, and three children were involved in the crash. The FRSC Sector Commander, said the accident was caused by a speed violation. “We understand that the bus driver lost control, and left his lane and faced an oncoming trailer and you know that the fuel tank of a hummer bus is very close to the engine. “The moment it has a head-on collision, the next thing is for it to go into flames. So, when this happened, it went into flames as usual. “The incident happened in a bush where there were no people, there was nobody close that could render any assistance. The whole vehicle and the occupants were burnt down to ashes completely” The FRSC Boss said mass burial of the ashes was ongoing by the Nigeria Police Force,and Social Welfare Officers. He expressed sadness over the incident saying that despite their unrelenting and tireless efforts at sensitizing drivers on the dangers associated with speed violation, and their refusal to observe simple road traffic regulations. ‘It is a very, very sad situation really. It is also very disheartening, it is a very bad report against us in the entire country. We spend two to three hours everyday sensitizing them and telling them that their overspending, and recklessness would  take them anywhere, but  only end their dreams, and lives  overnight. “Just look at this incident now, both the driver and the entire occupants of this bus were burnt into ashes, you can’t identify anyone of them”