By Billy Graham Abel Yola Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Adamawa state governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri has sounded an alarm to the newly inducted 1005 corp members cautioning them to take full advantage of the entrepreneurial and skill acquisition programmes within the camp and of the freedom that Adamawa state offers to acquire skills and empower themselves and to become creators of businesses because there are no white collar jobs available in the country. Gov. Fintiri said, the world is changing and corp members must become innovative and embrace skill acquisition programmes to become self-employed. Fintiri made the remarks at the swearing-in ceremony of the about one thousand and five 2023 Batch A Stream One corp members in Adamawa state. Gov. Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Maxwell Gidado said, “I am particularly happy that you are the first set to have a full ceremonial programme since after the outbreak of Covid-19 in 2020. My dear compatriots, congratulations on your successful graduation from your respective institutions of learning which qualified you for mobilization into this noble scheme.  “No doubt, the success was borne out of hard work, perseverance, discipline and focus and it is my earnest expectation that you will bring these sterling qualities to bear in the course of the Orientation Programme and by extension the service year.”  “At this juncture, I will like to remind you that white-collar jobs are not readily available.  The governor explained that, “Therefore, I encourage you to avail yourselves of the opportunities for self-employment offered through the Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) Programme. You are expected to choose from any of the skill areas, and make yourselves available for the training, which starts from the Orientation Camp. On our part, Management will continue to work with relevant stakeholders for the success of the programme. “It is against this backdrop that we restate our support for the establishment of the NYSC Trust Fund, currently awaiting the Presidential assent. When it becomes operational, the Trust Fund will no doubt boost skill acquisitions, youth employment and trigger national development. It is therefore, our prayer that the bill shall receive the timely Presidential assent for the benefit of our teeming youths. “As the First Cardinal Programme of the service year, the significance of the Orientation Course can never be over stressed. Therefore, be serious and actively participate in all the camp programmes and activities, particularly morning meditations, lectures, Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Programme (SAED), drills as well as sporting activities.  “Similarly, the Orientation Course gives you the “once-in-a-lifetime” opportunity to make friends not only in all the 36 states and FCT but also among all the major ethnic nationalities in the country. You can equally make friends across cultural, social and religious boundaries as well as those outside your academic disciplines.  “Above all, the Orientation Camp is also a golden opportunity for you to discover your talents and other potentials. So please grab this golden opportunity with both hands.” The governor commend the corp members for accepting to relocate to Adamawa which is consistent with the cardinal objectives of the corp and enjoins the corp members to feel at home in Adamawa state abd to be security conscience at all times. Speaking at the occasion, the state Coordinator of NYSC in Adamawa, Jingi Dennis, commend the corp members for quickly adapting to the conditions in Adamawa and for their commitment to the objectives of the service. Jingi said, “I must admit that I am highly impressed with the rate at which they are quickly adapting to their new environment and also responding positively to all the camp activities and instructions.  They are simply an exceptional set of corps members we have ever had. I only implore them to sustain this high level of discipline and enthusiasm. We are highly proud of them and hope they should keep it up!  “The orientation camp serves as a perfect breeding ground for cross fertilization of ideas and information as well as acquiring precarious experiences. Let me also remind you that the oath of allegiance you have taken today is significant, as it is expected to guide your conduct in the Service Year as well as have an everlasting influence on your life after service. You are also enjoined to familiarize yourselves with the provisions of the NYSC Act and the NYSC Bye-Laws.” “I wish us all a pleasant, memorable and hitch free camping exercise.Thank you and God bless you all.” Speaking at the occasion some of the corp members express their joy for the opportunity to serve their fatherland and reaffirm their commitment to the service. Yahaya Yusuf, a graduate of Biology Education from Federal University Wudil said, “I am particularly impressed coming to Adamawa state, it has widen my scope in life. I particularly feel so sad for those who have made it a habit to escape the service year by relocating back to their homes because they are missing a lot in life. I call on corp members to visit other parts of the country and acquint themselves with the full picture of what Nigeria really is.” Ogbonna Miracle from Ebonyi state said, “This is my first time being in the northern part of the country and I am very excited. “I agree with the advice of the governor that we should seek to be self-employed and I am committed to that too. I believe in one Nigeria and I am committed to do whatever I can to make my country great. I was not afraid of coming to the north instead my parent were the once that were more scared. “But coming here was an eye opener for me.” With regards to the 2023 elections Ogbonna said, “I enjoin all Nigerians who are eligible to vote to come out en masse and vote for the candidates of their choice so that we can make a difference.” The highlight of the event was the administering of oath to the corp members by Chief Judge of the state, Justice Hafsat Abdulrahman.