From Adanna Nnamani, Abuja Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige has tackled former President Olusegun Obasanjo for criticising the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari in his New Year letter to Nigerians. The former Anambra State Governor, while reaffirming his decision not to campaign for any presidential candidate in the forthcoming general elections, described the four frontrunners for the presidency as good candidates who have the requisite experience in business and government at state and federal levels. A statement by his media office, yesterday, quoted  Ngige as stating this on Tuesday, at his hometown, Alor, Idemili South local government area, Anambra State, during the annual distribution of Christmas largesse by his Foundation to members of the All Progressive Congress(APC), the indigent, widows and aged persons. The minister who addressed the crowd at St. Mary’s Church Pavilion Alor, Ngige said the Federal Government realised that things were difficult and requested ministers to go home and assist their people since last September.  He said  the current government should not be blamed much for the hardship in food and energy in the country because it  was not restricted to Nigeria alone, but happening all over the world. “So, don’t mind those politicians who will come and say that Buhari government inflicted hardship and poverty on you. One of them wrote a letter the other day, the habitual National letter writer. He said  Buhari brought Nigeria below 1999 level. How can somebody say that?The same person ruled from 1999 to 2007. What did he do to change here to Eldorado when he was in charge? It is easy to criticise. It is easy for spectators in the field of play to say they would have scored a goal if they were in the field of play. As a spectator, when the ball is in the penalty box,  you move your legs as if you are the one playing. But, when they throw you inside there, you discover that the game  is man to man. It is 90 minutes of man versus man. It is no longer a question of talking or clapping from the side line. “…I don’t like it. Chief Obasanjo is somebody I respect(and who we should all respect) a lot, but after reading his letter twice, I took exception to that aspect, criticising a government trying to finish very well and strong, working assiduously. It is not good.” Ngige decried the claim by Obasanjo that Nigeria today has been dragged well below Nigeria of the beginning of his presidency in 1999. He condemned Obasanjo for not constructing the second Niger bridge while in power owing to lack of  commitment. He said  some of the candidates in the coming elections were his friends and that he knows how to support them, and not by jumping up and down. Ngige enjoined his people and all Nigerians to go and get their PVCs in order to vote, assuring that they were going to look at faces before voting. He advised Nigerians to  vote for the right candidate who should be able to work for them after a critical evaluation of their manifestos and antecedents. As they are all good especially the 4 frontrunners that had served before.