By Brown Chimezie  Former governor of Imo State, Achike Udenwa, has described the death of president general of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, George Obiozor, as a huge national loss. In a condolence message by his Media Adviser, Emeka Omeihe, Udenwa mourned the death of the foremost academic and Nigeria’s former ambassador to the United States of America and Israel. A consummate diplomat and academic,Obiozor was also the director general of the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs. Udenwa described him as a man of many parts whose invaluable contributions spanned various spheres of our national life. He regretted that death came at a time his services were most needed not only by the Igbo race but the entire Nigerian nation. “The vacuum created by his death will take a long time to fill,” Udenwa said. The former governor prayed the Almighty God to grant his family, the people of Imo State and Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss and his soul eternal rest in the bosom of the Lord. Also, a chieftain of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Vitus Uzoh, said the legacies of Obiozor will for a long time remain in the minds of the Igbo  and other Nigerians whom he has touched their lives in the course of his service to humanity. In a statement, Uzoh described Obiozor as a thoroughbred diplomat who once served as ambassador of Nigeria to Cyprus. “In his service to Ndigbo as president general, he brought on board all this experience garnered over the decades and used it to lead Igbo race. Despite the insecurity ravaging Igbo land, Obiozor was able to  bring the situation before the Federal Government and the international community on the way forward. Up till his death, the late Igbo leader continued to call for an end to marginalisation of Ndigbo,” he said. While paying tributes to the late Ohanaeze leader, Uzoh recalled that Obiozor used his vast diplomatic acumen to engage the Federal Government on how to attract federal presence to the South East. While praying for God to give family of Obiozor the fortitude to bear the loss, the Ikwuano Obodoukwu Imo born chieftain, said he joined other people of the state, Nigerians at home and the diaspora to mourn the late Ohanaeze president general.