As the 2023 ballot closes in on Nigeria, Nigerians are starting to see clearly which party will win what and where. In Akwa Ibom State, 95 to 5, all five elections are Peoples Democratic Party’s to lose. This is neither prophecy nor prediction. This is just reality, reinforced by nearly 24 years of verifiable result. There are a thousand and one reasons Akwa Ibom and PDP have become like Siamese twins. This entry can accommodate just a number of such reasons. Number one is that an alarming majority of Akwaibomights are very loyal, humble and consistent people. Others erroneously looked down on us for this reason, but it is exactly why nationwide we used to be the preferred first and only choice for domestic help. Furthermore, Akwaibomights appreciate the dexterity and statecraft evinced by all three state chief executives thrown up by the party since 1999. Our people can never forget the uncanny class and visionariness of Arc. (Obong) Victor Bassey Attah (1999 to 2007); the uncommon rambunctiousness (no pun intended) and charisma of Chief (Dr) Godswill Obot Akpabio (as he then was) (2007 to 2015) and of course, the unequalled wizardy and peaceability of the current man, Gov. Udom Gabriel Emmanuel (2015 to May 2023). Forget our fastidiousness and the concomitant thanklessness, Akwa Ibom remains Africa’s most blessed state: governor-wise. Each of the trio can never be forgotten by our people. Willy nilly, Obong Attah has a special eternal place the way he fought and won the resource control battle against the centre -at great personal cost. Also, as subsequent years have confirmed, he was a fantastic dreamer and visioner. Look at Ibom Icon Hotels and Golf Resort, look at what is today Victor Attah International Airport (named after him in 2018/2019 by Gov. Udom Emmanuel), look at Shelter Afrique (an estate created by creativity). Every time Akwaibomights remember Obong Attah, we re-thank God for PDP that gave him to us. Next: like or hate the Attah successor, you cannot wish away those eight years of let God’s will be done. Yes, the era was stained by horrendous security challenges but never can anyone forget the humongous drive by the then governor to turn boys to men. Plus his zealous passion to take Akwa Ibom state to the world and vice versa. Speaking for him even now are the Hilltop Mansion (governor’s official residence) -one edifice that makes you want to be governor; his huge work leading to the launch of the airport, not forgetting Godswill Akpabio International Stadium (named after him by the incumbent). 2015 brought us an investment banker, an economist. Deacon Udom Emmanuel’s “they-mustn’t-see-me-coming” style is a world different especially vis-a-vis the immediate past’s. Except when it has to with the things of God and ideas of governance, Gov. Emmanuel is mostly conservative. When he leaves in May, his legacy will forever be coloured by -among others- Ibom Air, the fastest growing airline in Africa (don’t ask me how I arrived at that, except your own state has an airline); industrialisation, inclusiveness and tolerance capped by the enduring peace the state has enjoyed. It is this enviable report card that keeps the Akwa Ibom electorate hooked on PDP. As it was in 1999, 2003, 2007, 2011, 2015 and 2019, so it shall be in 2023. PDP has done Akwa Ibom well. Akwaibomights cannot change the winning party. All of us in Akwa Ibom state are church people. We know enough never to reward evil for good. For us, one good tenure deserves another. Having consistently scored it above 85% since its debut in 1999, we cannot but trust the brand that PDP is in the February/March general elections and beyond. I hope you understand those twin-reasons which speak to the certainty of PDP winning again and again and again in Akwa Ibom state. The way we say it in Nigeria, the party has done our state well. Therefore, our people can never choose otherwise. The party and the state are locked in a mutualism that the opposition cannot penetrate. There’s yet another reason PDP cannot not win Akwa Ibom. The party is too ubiquitous throughout the state. There’s no household that does not have a PDP member or two. In fact, in most families, even the unborn child is a PDP member. Yes, PDP is that entrenched in Akwa Ibom state. The party is spirit. It is almost criminally tabooish to belong outside PDP. You find members who have every reason to crosstitute staying put and those who had left hurrying back and looking so elated to return to the fold. PDP is so strong in Akwa Ibom that the tiny minority of Akwaibomights who are shared among opposition parties in the state as members still nurse feelings for this perennial ruling party. That’s true: most non-members in the state work for PDP, directly or indirectly, consciously or unconsciously, one way or the other. Even those who have managed to remain apolitical in the politics-crazy state plus including core professionals never hide the sentiment that if they were to join, it would be either PDP or PDP. In Akwa Ibom state, PDP is a religion, an opium; almost like oxygen! And, the party has people -all sorts of good people who have incredible political savvy. The most creative, the most generous, the most knowledgeable, the most courageous and the most convincing Akwaibomights belong in PDP. Enter the 329 Ward Leaders that the party recently granted proper recognition in readiness for the polls. Please note that subsequent elections shall have all of 368 Ward Leaders. These special men and women are a human trade secret exclusive only to PDP. While AKWA IBOM STATE WARD LEADERS UNION is working to take this magic formula nationally, permit me to tell you, sans giving too much away, that the other parties in the state would need at least eight years to copy this implementation strategy. Even then, they shall need forever to fine-tune it to PDP standard let alone beat it. AKWA IBOM STATE WARD LEADERS UNION working hand in hand with the party at the state level, and with the 31 political leaders, and with the innumerable office holders such as lawmakers, honourable commissioners, chairmen and members of boards and commissions, and with sundry lieutenants of the governor, and with the 31 council helmsmen, and with the 368 honourable councillors, and with the over 310 honourable supervisors, and with the 31 PDP chapter and 368 ward chairmen, and with the army of PDP chapter and ward excos, and with the 43 PDP standard-bearers and other PDP stakeholders (too many to count) and of course the game changers (4,354 Unit Commanders) even at 50% capacity -before, during and after elections- will offer any and every PDP opponent technical knockout easily and quickly. The foregoing embodies the simple statistics why PDP always wins Akwa Ibom. No other party in the south-south state has up to 10% of this mouthwatering structural strength. This is the reason the party always wins Akwa Ibom. This is the reason it is going to win again -and again and again. PDP in Akwa Ibom has people who are true leaders; leaders cherished by the people. This writer a little over two months ago became Founder and President General of AKWA IBOM STATE WARD LEADERS UNION and has accordingly had the opportunity to move around the state. In Akwa Ibom, PDP is too rich in people to fail. Let’s now talk about some of these special men and women of the party whose selflessness and humility resonate with the masses as witnessed firsthand. … to be continued next Monday