The deaths of some showbiz celebrities left the industry in pain and fans in shock. From actors to singers and reality TV stars, the entertainment industry witnessed several deaths that brought grief to not only the stakeholders but also many Nigerians. Ada Ameh Actress Ada Ameh died on July 17, 2022 at NNPC Hospital in Warri, Delta State. She was aged 48. Ameh was popular for her Emuakpo character in the TV series, The Johnsons. The actress was buried on Friday August 26, 2022 in her father’s compound at Otukpo, Benue State. Sola Onayiga Veteran actress, Sola Awojobi Onayiga passed away on July 18. The gap-toothed role interpreter was popular for playing Ireti in the now-defunct family drama, Fuji House of Commotion. Sammie Okposo Gospel singer, Sammie Okposo died in his sleep on the morning of Friday November 25, 2022. He was aged 51. A tribute night was held for him on Tuesday, December 13, in Lagos, followed by a service of songs on Wednesday. He has since been buried. Biyi Bandele Novelist, playwright and film director, Biyi Bandele died on Sunday August 17, 2022. The death of Bandele, director, Half of a Yellow Sun and co-director, Blood Sisters, shook the entertainment industry to its foundation. Lari Williams The founding president of Actors Guild of Nigeria, Lari Williams, died at the age of 81 on February 27, 2022, after a brief illness. Rico Swavey Former Big Brother Naija housemate, Patrick Fakoya aka Rico Swavey was involved in a car crash, leading to his being placed on life support. He died two days later on Thursday October 13, 2022. Osinachi Nwachukwu Gospel singer, Osinachi Nwachukwu passed away on Friday April 8, 2022 at the age of 42. Nwachukwu had teamed up with another singer, Prospa Ochimana to produce the song, Ekwueme, which shot both of them into the limelight in 2017. Tafa Oloyede Yoruba actor, John Adewuni popularly known as Tafa Oloyede, died at his residence in Osogbo, Osun State on February 1. He was aged 69. The actor’s body was laid to rest in his hometown of Ede, Osun State on Friday, February 11. Romanus Amuta Veteran actor, Romanus Amuta popularly known as Natty in the rested soap, New Masquerade died on February 9, 2022 after a protracted sickness. He was aged 79. Yinka Ogundaisi Veteran actor, Yinka Ogundaisi, died on Wednesday, June 15, after a brief illness at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Lagos. The Village Headmaster star was buried in the evening of the same day in Ibadan, Oyo State. Leo Mezie Nollywood actor, Leonard Chimezie Onyemachi, popularly known as Leo Mezie, who had been battling with kidney disease, finally succumbed to the cold hands of death on Saturday May 14, 2022 at the age of 46. Chinedu Nwadike Gospel singer and actor, Chinedu Nwadike, died in March 2022. A service of songs was held for him at Living Faith Church, Owerri, Imo State, on May 24, before he was finally laid to rest. Chinedu Bernard Nollywood actress, Chinedu Bernard slumped and died while cleaning the chapel of St. Leo the Great Catholic Church in Enugu on April 29, 2022.  She was rushed to East Side Hospital in Enugu State, where doctors confirmed her dead. Davido’s son, Ifeanyi Music star, Davido, and his fiancée, Chioma, lost their only male child on October 31, 2022. The tragic event happened when the three-year-old child drowned inside a swimming pool at the family’s apartment in Banana Island, Lagos.