Olajide Abiola, the urbane co-founder and CEO of Smart Residences Limited, a realty outfit which operates a line of prestigious apartments in Abuja, sees himself as a Solutions Architect and military veteran. Since his days in the Army and university, his optimism and unshakable faith in the country had always irritated some cynics and pessimists. Indeed, Abiola has been a very young man of impact and a smart entrepreneur full of positive energy. He doesn’t expend energy on whining; instead strives to build the world he wants to live in. As a very pragmatic entrepreneur, Abiola believes entrepreneurs build economies and markets, not governments. In the demonstration of that, as far back as late December 2021, Abiola —who also runs KiaKia, one of Nigeria’s leading financial technology companies—set for himself a target to add over 400 new jobs to the Nigerian economy across three industries in 2022. But this tireless investor couldn’t hit the 400 mark but could only add just over 250 permanent jobs and create over 2,000 temporary ones in 2022. In the New Year, Abiola is hoping to add 700 permanent ones and create over 4,000 temporary ones. The youthful dude intends to do that with the expansion of the hospitality arm of his growing business empire. Late December 2022, Olajide and his team opened for business ‘The Destination’, a world-class 110-unit luxury skyline apartment in the heart of Wuse II, Abuja. The mint-fresh architectural masterpiece – delivered in 13 months – is a luxury service apartment that provides accommodation for short-let and long term purposes. For Abiola, prior to the coming of ‘The Destination’, there was ‘The Residence’ in Katampe, and later ‘The Glass Residence’ in Jabi. But with ‘The Destination’, Abiola wanted to produce something that not only encompasses both the upscale living and working spaces but also fits as a recreational, business, and vacation space within the city of Abuja. He has promised that ‘The Destination’ will be his best work yet and the toast destination for visitors across the world visiting the Capital City.