By Chinelo Obogo          In its determination to help bridge the knowledge gap in the nation’s aviation sector, the Murtala Muhammed Airport Terminal Two (MMA2) Training Academy has successfully obtained regulatory accreditation to offer industry-relevant training courses. The ultra-modern training facility commenced operations in 2019 and is managed by Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL), operators of the MMA2 Terminal.  After a rigorous approval process in compliance with regulatory requirements of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), the Academy has been accredited by the regulatory agency as an ‘Aviation Security Training Provider’. Its objectives have since been expanded to include the provision of world-class training courses and facilities to aviation stakeholders in the country.  This was contained in a statement by BASL’s Head of Corporate Communications, Mr. Oluwatosin Onalaja, who said: “The MMA2 Training Academy has outstanding instructors and experienced specialists with a proven track record of protective Aviation security across Nigeria. Our highly interactive training courses provide the best mix of experience, theory and practice in a professional learning environment, using real-life case studies, practical applications and up-to-date technologies.” Among other things, the Academy consists of three well-furnished training classrooms each with a capacity to seat 20 students. The classrooms have adjustable floor plans and are equipped with Virtual Classrooms, Business Solutions (Secretarial, Printing, Copying etc), Training Services and uninterrupted power supply. Other benefits include easy parking,  free WiFi and complimentary refreshments.   Mr. Abdulfatai Lawal also said, “the facility offers complete learning solutions for Aviation Security, Aviation Safety and Behavioural Courses delivered in a  conducive environment and at the client’s preferred location and time.  Lawal emphasised that, “MMA2 Training Academy Courses are the most cost-effective and efficient way to train your team. Our Training Courses are ICAO STP and Conventional.  The Conventional Training Courses are customised and developed with industry-relevant organizational objectives as their core guidelines.”