Life is like a warfare and being a Christian does not exempt you from this warfare. It only gives you an edge over the opposition. This Warfare is inevitable, but victory is guaranteed by the force of wisdom. “Getting wisdom is the most important thing you can do. Whatever else you get insight. Love, wisdom and she will make you great. Embrace her, and she will bring you honour. She will be your crowning glory. Listen to me, my son. Take seriously what i am telling you, and you will live a long life.”  Prov. 4:7-10. Cf. Prov. 3:13-18; Eccl. 9:14-16. The scripture above is the summary of a good life. Wisdom is the major course of study in life, and once you fail in wisdom, you cannot move forward. It is like a major course for a University degree; once you fail your major course you cannot graduate. Wisdom is the major course of life, once you fail in it, you have failed in life. The strongest currency in the world is neither Dollar, Pound nor Euro. The strongest currency in the world is wisdom. You can be in the midst of wealth and yet suffer poverty. You can be in the midst of success and be a failure if you don’t know what to do. It is not enough to be where things are happening but to know what to do; no matter how thick the darkness may be, a man with wisdom can never be stranded in life. “Arise, shine, for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee. For behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people: but the Lord shall arise upon thee, and His glory shall be seen upon thee. And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and Kings to the brightness of thy rising”. Isaiah 60: 1-3  “As I was in the days of my youth, when the secret of God was upon my tabernacle”. Job 29:2  Every time there is hardship/crisis, what will change the situation is wisdom. Anytime there is hardship, what will produce wealth is wisdom. It is the secrets of God that makes Stars out of people. Christianity does not breed fools but stars. When you know what others do not know, they will look for you. Your success is not in your location, and it is not in your situation. Your success is in your Revelation. It is impossible to get results where understanding is absent. Everything in life is a product of wisdom; when you see yourself struggling in life, be it in business, finance, ministry or family crises, it is an indication that wisdom is lacking somewhere. When you see yourself struggling in life working like an Elephant but eating like a Rat, your problem is not the devil or the economy but lack of Wisdom. The Word of God described wisdom as the principal thing. Prov. 4:7. Everybody wants to win in life and wants to prosper and be successful, but not everybody knows how to prosper. Many people want to receive healing, but not all of them know how to receive divine healing. There is nothing that is impossible under the sun, it is a man’s limitation that causes his frustration. If you have wisdom, there is no impossibility in life. It is a man’s mental limitation that causes frustration. Wisdom can make you succeed without sweat; and it defines the limit of your success in life. It also defines the limit of your result and determines the level of your accomplishment in life. Wisdom makes the difference in every man’s life and destiny. It is the master key to all treasures of life, peace, health, wealth, and many other things that money cannot buy, are acquired by wisdom. Wisdom is an Enabler. “There was a little city and few men within it: and there came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it. Now there was found in it a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city: yet no man remembered that same poor man. Then said I, Wisdom is better than strength: nevertheless the poor man’s wisdom is despised and his words are not heard”. – Ecc 9:14-16. True wisdom instructs, directs, and generates peace. Wisdom is the master key for exploits in life and is likened to the womb that gives birth to other virtues. There are mysteries and secrets about life that only the wisdom of God can unveil. Celebrate wisdom, desire it and pursue wisdom. THEN, WHAT IS WISDOM? Wisdom is knowing what to do and doing it at the right time, the right way, to obtain the desired result or goal. It is applying the knowledge of God’s word in life situations. It is the ability to know the right way to go at every given time. It is the right application of God’s word that you hear. True wisdom is the manifestation or revelation of the rightness of God in your spirit man. It is a guiding force that causes you to act, respond or speak beyond human reasoning. It is the expression of the Power of God in thoughts, plans, purpose and decision making. When the wisdom of God functions in you, it becomes the power that influences your choices in life. That is why it is a guiding force. Wisdom propels you in the right direction in life, and positions you in a place of advantage. Gen. 39:4 Wisdom is an insight into the future, it is also seeing with the eyes of God. Wisdom is so important that God made sure that wisdom was in place before creation. It is pertinent to ask God for wisdom before you can start any business, project or major assignment. Wise people have eyes, they have the capacity to see what others do not see and to hear what others do not hear, so they do what others do not do. Everything in life is possible by wisdom, it can make a slave become a King. Divine Wisdom Levels Mountain with ease in the situation of the oppositions against Joseph, divine wisdom preserved Him. And with wisdom, we can win every battle.    Supernatural wisdom is not common sense but uncommon sense. It is an unmerited favour from God. When you operate in supernatural wisdom, you do not run after men, they run after you. Supernatural intelligence is a direct product of the Spirit of God in the mental faculty of men. When you operate in divine wisdom, your original background becomes irrelevant. One can only be marginalized when you lack wisdom. Divine wisdom has its root in God but it is channeled through the power of the Holy Spirit. Isaiah 11:1-2. The Holy Spirit is the Source of Wisdom. When you are Born Again, you are wisdom personified.  DECISION TIME The best gift of life is time. The best gift of time is now. The best use of now is the decision to secure and prepare for eternity. If you have not accepted Jesus Christ as your Savior, please don’t let this moment pass you. You’re just a decision away from a secured eternity. You can pray this prayer to surrender to Jesus: “Lord Jesus, I believe you died for me. I accept you into my life as my Saviour and Lord. Forgive my sins and give me power to live for you the rest of my life on earth”. Amen. Congratulations! If you have prayed this prayer, you are now born again. You can contact us to let us know about your decision or visit us at the address above to learn more on how to grow in your Christian life. God bless you.