From Olanrewaju Lawal, Birnin Kebbi The Kebbi State House of Assembly Majority Leader, Hon. Faruq Aliyu Nasarawa, Chairman Kalgo Local Government Area of Kebbi State, Hon. Shamsudeen Faruk Kalgo have charged the newly State Executive of the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) to carry all the members of the council along in their affairs.   They stated this during the inauguration of the newly elected Kebbi State Executive after their election which was held in Birnin Kebbi, where Comrade Ahmed Rufai emerged as the State Chairman alongside other 19 officers. While addressing the new officers and delegates from various local government areas, Majority Leader of the House of Assembly, Hon.Faruq Aliyu Nasarawa,told them that the present Assembly Lawmakers, mandated him to fish out talented youths in the state as the Chairman House Committee on Yiuth, who could be given leadership responsibility. According to him, “I want to remind you that, Kebbi State is the home for the youths because the Governor of the State, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu has given us the mandate to fish out talented youths who could be given positions in the government and be running the state affairs. ” That is why I was appointed as the Chairman, House Committee of Youth. I want to appeal to you all, especially the incoming state executive to reach out to others who have lost in the election,carry them along for the progress of the council “, he said. In his remark, the Chairman of Kalgo Local Government, Alhaji Shamsudeen Faruk Kalgo, who also charged the newly elected State executive of the NYCN to work with other members of the Council, noted that the immediate past Chairman of the Council, really worked hard for the peace and unity of the Council. ” Base of this, I want to urge the new State Executive to build up on the achievement of the past executive. As the Chairman of the APC Youth Leader, I am going to work with you to ensure victory for the APC in the forthcoming general elections “, he said. Earlier, the National Coordinator of Tinubu/Shettima Integrity group, Hon. Abubakar Sodiq Fakai commended the Council members for their peaceful conduct during the election, stressed that, they should join force with the APC both at the State, Federal levels to deliver massive votes for the party’s Presidential, Governorship, Senatorial and all other candidates in the general elections. In his speech, the newly elected Chairman of the NYCN, Comrade Ahmed Rufai promised to carry all members of the Council along in the running of the Council affairs. Rufai also commended the state Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, his Wife, Dr. Zainab Shinkafi Bagudu and the Ministry of Youths development for their support to the Council’s development, stressed that, the new executive would continue to liaise with relevant stakeholders of the development of the youths in the state.