The Atiku-Okowa’s Presidential Management Committee in Anambra State has launched a grassroots campaign project called “One Ward, Minimum of One Thousand Votes.” The Atiku-Okowa Presidential Management Committee in Anambra State, led by Prof. Obiora Okonkwo, has launched a campaign project called “One Ward, Minimum of One Thousand Votes” in an effort to take the recovery plan of Atiku Abubakar to the grassroots and win majority votes in Anambra State. The project is intended to help the campaign reach every electorate in the state. Speaking to the media in Awka, Anambra State, the Director General of the Atiku-Okowa Presidential Management Committee, Okonkwo said the party is working to “win as always,” which he characterized as the theme of the state campaign. Okonkwo said that the PDP party and presidential campaign committee, which have for months gained significant converts to the Atiku-Okowa ticket and recovery plan, including critical stakeholders, are confident of victory for the party in the upcoming presidential elections, as they always did in the state of Anambra. We are taking the “One Ward, Minimum of One Thousand Votes” campaign to the 326 wards in the state in order to make the campaign’s theme “Win As Always” practical and impactful. With the inauguration of ward and polling booth canvassers, which will be launched officially on  January 18, our gospel of recovery will be preached to every available Anambra voter for them to key into the Atiku-Okowa agenda. Okonkwo said that the canvassers would serve as the apostles of Atiku-Okowa and preach the gospel of the recovery and rescue agenda to every Anambra electorate. Speaking further, he acknowledged that the Atiku-Okowa presidential management committee in Anambra State has won over many converts for the party and is still making inroads in the state, which is necessary for the victory of the party and the presidential candidate. Okonkwo assured that the PDP in Anambra will win as always, but this time with wide margins as the campaign committee is targeting a significant percent increase from previous victories in the state. He said the Atiku-Okowa campaign is looking to harness popular votes from the about 2.5 million registered voters in Anambra state, according to INEC figures as of today.