From Laide Raheem, Abeokuta The campaign train of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, berthed in Ogun, yesterday, with the former vice president charging members of the party in the state to ensure they win their respective polling booths in the forthcoming general election. Atiku gave this charge while addressing party members and stakeholders during a town hall meeting at the Park Inn Hotel, Abeokuta. He noted that he would be able to execute his plans to retool the country for greatness, if he wins at the poll, maintaining that party members must mobilise the people and ensure PDP wins in their polling booths. He warned that members must not be complacent by just following the party candidates around, but, strive to deliver the party at the February 25 presidential and national assembly elections. Atiku informed the gathering that if elected, his administration would expand the scope of the economy so as to improve the living standard of the people and create more employment. He recalled that the PDP-led government grew Nigeria’s economy between 1999 and 2015 as the largest in Africa, saying that his administration would not only revive the ailing economy, but grow it sustainably. The PDP presidential candidate added that his administration, in conjunction with international partners, would fund and expand primary health centres, to ensure quality healthcare is made available to the people at the grassroots. On education, Atiku said more money would be budgeted for education and works towards ending the incessant strikes in the Nigerian universities and other tertiary institutions. “We will budget more money for education and make sure that ASUU strikes and others cease. The education sector is too important to be neglected. I’ll not allow our standard of education to fall.” The presidential candidate was accompanied by the Chairman, PDP Presidential Campaign Council, Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State; the Director General of the Council, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State; the National Chairman of PDP, Senator Iyorchia Ayu; former President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki; Governor Nurudeen Adeleke of Osun State; formr Cross River State governor, Liyel Imoke; his Jigawa State counterpart, Sule Lamido; Minority Leader of the Senate, Philip Aduda; the Soutwest Coordinator, Atiku For President and former governor of Osun State, Olagunaoye Oyinlola; Minority Leader in the House of Representatives, Ndidi Elumelu and the PDP governorship candidate in Lagos State, Jide Adeniran.