From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan The apex Yoruba self-determination group, Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide (IOOW), which has been leading the agitation for an independent Yoruba nation, has been sharply divided into two groups over alleged fraud and embezzlement. The fresh facts emerged within the past days over the developments that have left some people confused on the happenings in the leadership of the organisation. Saturday Sun investigation revealed that the crisis started in the group, long before December 5, 2022, when the IOOW leader, Prof Banji Akintoye, an Emeritus Professor of History and Second Republic Senator, resigned from the organisation. In the resignation letter, Akintoye cited old age and a weakened body system as reasons for his action. He, however, announced his successor, Prof Wale Adeniran, who was until the announcement, the deputy chairman of IOOW, as the new chairman Akintoye apologised that he resigned from the management of IOOW when the movement was in crisis. He prayed that Adeniran, a retired Assistant Professor of African Studies and the pioneer Commissioner for Education in Osun State, would bring everyone together and resolve all contending issues. Prior to Akintoye’s resignation, Adeniran too had resigned from the executive of the organisation in November 2022, citing matters of principle as the reason for his resignation. But the worldwide congress of IOOW, held on December 17, 2022 accepted Akintoye’s resignation and affirmed Adeniran as the new leader of the group. But he accepted the mantle of leadership from Akintoye for the group. But On January 7, 2022, news went viral that Adeniran has also resigned from IOOW, which was the second time within two months that he would resign. He also resigned as a member of the group and suspended his participation in the Yoruba self-determination struggle. He hinged his resignation on the allegations of corruption slammed against him by a Cotonou-based bureau de change agent and Personal Assistant to Prof Banji Akintoye, Mr. Kabir Adebayo, fondly called Obalola, who had responded to the allegation that Akintoye mismanaged funds being paid into his account by well-meaning Yoruba people worldwide to support the struggle. According to Obalola, as quoted by Mr. Maxwell Adeleye, the former Communication Secretary of IOOW, 70 per cent of the money sent into his account by supporters of the self-determination struggle worldwide allegedly went into Prof Wale Adeniran and his wife’s accounts. Adeniran, who had denied Obalola’s claims, described the allegation as blackmail over some issues that he refused to compromise on, which he didn’t mention. He, however, enjoined well-meaning Yoruba leaders and elders of thoughts to constitute a committee to look into the allegations raised by Obalola and invite both himself and Prof Akintoye to present their accounts of stewardship and make the reports of their findings open. On Saturday January 7, 2023, the former Communication Secretary of IOOW, Maxwell Adeleye, also announced his resignation from the organisation. He said in the letter: “Those of you that sent your hard-earned money to your heroes should hold those you sent money to for accountability and leave me alone. I will no longer absolve bullets for your heroes. Anyone or group of persons who knows he sent me money should provide proof of payment into my account so that I can respond to the person appropriately. “I call on Prof Banji Akintoye to also step aside 101 per cent from the Yoruba nation self-determination struggle so that his account of steawardship and all the funds he has collected can be interrogated by the Yoruba people.” Some days ago, Concerned Leaders of IOOW, addressed a press conference held at the NUJ Press Centre, Iyaganku, Ibadan, and rejected the resignation letters of Prof Banji Akintoye, the leader of the group, and Prof Wale Adeniran. They revalidated and reaffirmed Akintoye as the leader of IOOW. Meanwhile, Akintoye wrote another letter in the second week of January 2023, entitled: ‘My Humble Response to the Request that I Should Withdraw My Letter of Resignation’. He acknowledged the interventions of individuals, and organisations, that appealed to him to withdraw his resignation letter. He added: “In the circumstance, I hereby give up my earlier resignation decision, and announce my return to my leadership position and role in Ilana.” After his resumption, he dissolved the executive council of the organisation. Efforts made to get comments on the development in IOOW did not yield positive results, as prominent Yoruba sons declined comments on the alleged fraud and embezzlement.