From Molly Kilete, Abuja The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba, has presented a cheque  of N13 billion to police officers killed while on duty between 2012-2020. The amount also covered personnel,who sustained injuries between the year under review, while carrying out their duties and have suffered from disabilities. A total of 6,128  families of deceased personnel, and injured police officers are expected to benefit from the money. Presenting the cheques, ranging from  N6million to N500,000, to the beneficiaries, at  Force Headquarters ,Abuja,  IGP Baba, said, the amount totaling N13.628 billion, was the backlog of payment for 6,184  personnel, who had previously fallen under the uninsured/uncovered periods of Group Life Assurance, and Group Personal Accident Insurance Scheme, between 2012 – 2020. The IGP, while sympathizing with the families of the deceased Officers, over the loss of their breadwinners, urged them to utilize the  funds judiciously in training their children, and assured them that the police under his leadership , would  continue to do more in advancing their welfare interests,and that of serving personnel. The IGP, who charged serving police officers to rededicate themselves  to the service of the nation, saying that,unlike in the past, the Federal Government has  shown much faith, and committed so much resources to reform the Police, enhance, welfare and close operational gaps. Speaking on the Group Life Assurance Scheme, which he said was introduced as a result of the Pension Reform Act 2004, and amended in 2014 l, the IGP, said that It should be noted, that the Group Personal Accident Insurance Scheme, is welfare packages fully funded by the FG, for personnel of the Nigeria Police Force. However, he said, “due to paucity of funds, the FG could not fund the schemes successfully, and this created gaps which led to a backlog of unpaid insurance claims from 2012 to 2020.  “On my assumption in office in April 2021, my attention was drawn to this development. Consequently, an urgent representation was made to Mr. President , requesting for the release of funds to enable us pay all outstanding claims to the families of deceased police officers. “It was with great relief that Mr. President appreciated my representation ,and graciously approved the release of the sum of 13,628,535,580.00k, to pay the backlog of a total of 6,184, personnel that had previously fallen under the uninsured/uncovered periods of Group Life Assurance and Group Personal Accident Insurance Scheme, covering from Year 2012 – 2020”.