By Vivian Onyebukwa The Catholic Archbishop of the Metropolitan See of Lagos, His Grace, Most Rev. Alfred Adewale Martins, has urged the Federal Government and the Academic Staff Union of the Universities (ASUU) to work together to ensure uninterrupted study schedule as students resume the academic session after the Christmas and New Year holiday. The archbishop stated this at the priestly and deacons ordination at the Holy Cross Cathedral, Lagos. He described it as unfortunate that they were even celebrating the fact that after a long time they were going back, saying it never should have happened that they have been away for that long. While expressing gladness and hope that it would be the beginning of uninterrupted study schedule for the young people,  the bishop regretted that much time has been wasted already. He said: “Much time has been thrown away on the basis of inadequate attention paid to the future of these children; inadequate funding towards education; inadequate attention given to those who run education in the country. So, we are glad that they are going back. But we hope that this will be the last of any of such obstruction. In other words, ASUU and government should work together to ensure that we never experience this again. If our government is really serious about education, they should ensure that this never happened again. “It is a Grace and when they remember that Grace has been given to them, they should know that they are not alone in carrying out their duties. All that they need to do is to make sure that they are with God. “In other words, God will never leave or disappoint them. They should only ensure that they stay with God. And certainly, the people of God and the body of Christ are really delighted that they have been ordained and will certainly support them with prayers.” He spoke about the Feast of Epiphany, which he said is celebrated every year as a way by which Christ is recognized the fact that Jesus is given to the whole world as its saviour. “That is given to us by the fact that the Wise Men who came were not Jews and never knew about the prophecies. But the star revealed who Jesus was and where he was to them. That is an indication that Jesus came for the entire universe for our salvation. So, it’s a revelation of Jesus as the Saviour of the whole world and also a call for us to offer ourselves and whatever we have to the service of God in the same way that the Wise Men did,” he said. Also speaking to journalists shortly after the ordination, the Bishop advised Nigerians on the forthcoming election, saying that it is that which all have been waiting for. He said: “We are truly glad that it is around the corner because we are hoping that the election will bring a new dawn to the life and welfare of the people in this country. There has been too much hardship and suffering in these past few years. “So, we are hoping that a new dispensation will usher in a method of governance such that the lives of people can be better. That means therefore, that those who are qualified to vote, who are registered, should go and ensure that they go and collect their voters cards. We still continue to hear that voters cards are still lying in offices unclaimed and elections are only a few weeks away from now.” While advising Nigerians on the forthcoming election, the bishop promised that they will continue to encourage people to go and collect their voters card, and also admonished politicians to play their games right. “We thank God for the electoral law that has been passed and which gives hope to people that there will be good elections. But our politicians must play fair for the law to realise its purpose for which they were put in place”. He asked voters not to trade their cards. “Please don’t sell your cards. If you do you lose your future and you also lose the right to complain or even protest over anything. In any case, it is an offence these days to either sell or buy voters cards. And therefore, we all should just do the right things.” He  described Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), as the umpire while expecting that it will be an unbiased umpire. “The electoral law has been given. We hope they will follow the law to the latter and not allow themselves to be in any way negatively influenced towards the election. A priest, Father Meke Martins, and nine deacons were among the ordained. The deacons included Anike Benedict Emeka, Dodo Augustine Johnpaul, Emenalo Kizito Ogechukwu, Igbadumhe Martin, and Mgbede Christopher Sunday. Others are Onele Calsitus Ifeanyi, Ulasi Peter and Sopuruchukwu Dennis. Father Meke Martins, expressing his joy said: “God presented before me, men who were diligent in their duties and who I aspired to be like. It’s been studies, spiritual moments, ups and downs to which the Spirit of Grace saw me through.” One of the Deacons Rev Ulasi Peter Davies, stated that it is an easy task to serve God. “One needs to be dedicated. My advice to the younger ones is for them to develop the courage as it is difficult to see young people coming to serve God. They have to look up to the face of God if they are ready to serve him.The ordination is a thing of joy to me. It has been a journey of nine years and by the Grace of God I am getting closer to the journey.”