From Aloysius Attah, Onitsha People of Amalla community in Udenu, home Local Government Council of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, Enugu State, stepped into the New Year with a new lease of life. An indigene of the community based in Awka, Anambra State, Chief Emmanuel Odo, just delivered a 1.5km-road project to them. They rejoiced because the tarred road has eased their pains and suffering. It also connected them to other parts of the state easily. Ugwuanyi who commissioned the project praised Odo for imbibing the think-home-philosophy and supporting government’s effort in opening up the rural communities. Represented by the chairman of the council, Chief Solomon Onah, the governor reiterated his commitment to providing an enabling environment for forward-looking and progressive private individuals to grow and contribute their quota to a greater Enugu State. The event also featured the dedication of Odo’s country home in Umuegali village, Amalla. Parish Priest of St. Theresa’s Cathoic Church, Efruoka, Amalla, Rev. Fr Cyracus Ugwuanyi, who led about 15 other priests in a homily applauded Odo for using his wealth to bless his people. He noted that the philanthropist belongs to the category of those who use their wealth to assist the church and not fighting the church in the guise of promoting culture and tradition: “We are in a season of thanksgiving. It is God that gave Emmanuel Odo the power to make wealth, build his own and build for the community. It is just proper that he realised this and is returning the glory to God.” As a payback, the three autonomous communities that make up Amalla, jointly bestowed Odo with two chieftaincy titles. Traditional ruler of Amalla community, Igwe Patrick Eze, aka Alhaji Waziri, said the titles of Onwanetiriora (the moon that shines for all) and Mmilinezoraoha (the rain that fall for all) of Amalla community, were not enough appreciation to their benefactor: “From the COVID-19 era interventions, empowerment programmes and construction of roads; everyone who sees what the man has done will be happy to honour him in very special ways. We know our living condition before now. It gladdens the heart of the entire Amalla community that an orphan like him rose from the ashes to be a pillar of development and support to the community.” Austin Ndigwe (Ike Obodo Awka), a claimant to the Awka traditional stool, who moved his cabinet chiefs from the Anambra State capital, to identify with Odo said: “I’m in Awka because Amalla is in Awka. This is my home too because Chief Emmanuel Odo is one of my chiefs. I made him an Awka citizen. I also honoured him with a chieftaincy title of Ugwumba of Awka for the numerous development strides he has done in our community, Awka. “A lot of Awka citizens gained employment through his investments. That is why we moved the entire Awka Cabinet Chiefs, the first 11 of Awka community to this place to show him love.” Odo later spoke with Daily Sun: “I started out as an apprentice trader who served his master for eight years. Some who see me now think that money just dropped from heaven. They don’t know that patience is a great virtue. “After serving for eight years in Awka I was settled. I started my own with the meagre resources. After about seven years, I left for overseas but all those struggles didn’t pay.  It was after I came back from abroad that through dint of hard work and prayers, I started small in the oil and gas sector. I established my own company and diversified into other businesses like the tricycle distribution with my partners from India, real estate, homes and properties.” On his motivation for philanthropy and community development, Odo said he was moved to support government after looking at the devastating underdevelopment in his rural community of Amalla: “Governor Ugwuanyi was highly impressed when I visited him at the Government House and informed him that I constructed the road. “He assured me that though he was already billed to travel outside the state on the proposed day of commissioning of the road, he would visit me before the time. True to his promise, he came on January 2, 2023. “He was not only delighted when he came but he promised to extend the road project to connect the Amalla Old Road. He will also stretch it to the boundary.” Odo prayed that his noble gesture would mark a turning point and open doors for youths of the area to blossom in their various endeavours. His wife, Chinasa, advised the youths to take life easy, work hard and pray to God for divine uplifting. Nollywood star, Rachael Okonwkwo (Nkoli Nwa Nsukka) was among the guests at the occasion.