From John Adams, Minna As candidates intensify their campaigns ahead of the February 26 2023 general elections, Niger State People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for governor Alhaji Isah Liman Kantigi has published a 26-page document containing his manifesto and plan of action. The candidate, in the document titled ‘My Bond with Nigerlite'”, presented to party stakeholders in Minna at the weekend, listed among other things, infrastructure, health, agriculture, education and women empowerment as his priority. Alhaji Kantigi specifically mentioned women empowerment as one area that his administration will beam searchlight on with a promise to create a Department for Widows and Women’s Ministry which will be under the office of the governor directly. In the action document, the candidate said he will directly put the women’s ministry under him and create a department for widows in the ministry to look after the affairs of women who lost their spouses in the state if he is elected state governor. The presentation of the document which was witnessed by party bigwigs in the state and other stakeholders, including the leadership of the coalition of 125 support groups for Atiku/Okowa, and Kantigi/Gomna 2023, led by Malama Hassana Dada and Rahina Ibrahim is coming barely one week Flagg off of his campaign for the March Governorship elections in the state. Alhaji Kantigi, a two-term local government Chairman and Commissioner for Local Government, Community Development and Chieftaincy Affairs, told the people that he will start work from the inauguration ground on May 29 If elected as governor of the state, saying that with his experience, he is acquainted with the challenges facing the state, especially after eight of maladministration by the APC led Government in the state. He disclosed that the state and the country at large have never had it so sad in the seven years plus in the hands of the APC government and therefore urged the people to be fully armed with their Voters card to effect a genuine change by voting for PDP in all the elections. Alhaji Kantigi then encouraged the various support groups to work hard and put in their best for PDP to win the elections ensuring them that they will be adequately rewarded. He then donated the sum of N5 million to the support groups to enable them to continue their grassroots mobilisation ahead of the elections. Earlier the leaders of the coalition of support groups, Mallama Hassana Dada and Hajiya Rahina Ibrahim, pledged their full support for the PDP and its candidates in the coming elections.