Wife of former Oyo State Governor, Dr. Florence Ajimobi, yesterday, led hundreds of women, leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Oyo State Secretariat of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) to solicit support for the Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress ( APC), Bola Tinubu and his running mate, Kashim Shettima. The women under the aegis of Oyo Tinubu Shettima (OTISHE) Women Presidential Campaign Organisation said apart from canvassing support for the APC candidate,  the visit was  to solicit for  prayers and prophetic pronouncement of the Christian leadership on the electoral success of the APC presidential candidate. The visitors were received by the CAN leadership from across all the 33 local government areas of the state by the State Chairman, Apostle Joshua Akinyemiju. Explaining why Tinubu/Shettima should be the preferred choice in the forthcoming elections, Mrs Ajimobi said she was ready to stake her name and integrity on the genuineness and sincerity of Tinubu going by his antecedent of building leaders over the years. She appealed  to the CAN leadership not to be swayed from supporting Tinubu/Shettima because it the Moslem-Moslem  ticket. but should consider his antecedents assuring that the duo of Tinubu and Shettima were individuals with the fear of God. She said: “We are here to intimate you and seek your blessings. I believe on the power of prayers and your prophetic pronouncements. That is why we are here today to present our party flagbearers. Tinubu is a man we know has the fear of God. He is fit, sound, astute and I am saying all that with the fear of God. I don’t blow the trumpet of what I am not sure of. I know this man because he was very close to my late husband. Asiwaju has the fear of God and the fear that the same faith ticket will lead to Islamising Nigeria is not true and can never be true. “I can stand as a guarantor for Tinubu anytime. He is a man that is well known and can be trusted. We need a God-fearing leader and it should not just be about religion. Other reasons why support should be given to Asiwaju for the 2023 presidential elections also include the fact that he is married to a Christian and even a Pastor, his children are practising Christians. Asiwaju has never worked against CAN’s interest. He supported Lagos CAN by giving them land where they built their Secretariat when he was Lagos State governor. “On the fear that a Moslem-moslem ticket could be detrimental to CAN and Nigeria’s interest. The diversity of Nigeria will never permit anyone to Islamize Nigeria. Even our Constitution guarantees freedom to religion. Not only that, the Christian bodies in Nigeria are too vocal for any one to try that.  Buhari did not do it, it is thus not someone like Asiwaju that would do it,” he said. In his response, Oyo CAN Chairman, Apostle Joshua Akinyomiju commended the visitors assuring that the association would do whatever God leads it to do.