From Olanrewaju Lawal, Birnin Kebbi Ahead of next month’s general elections, the Director General of the APC campaign council and former governor of Kebbi State, Alhaji Saidu Nasamu Dakingari, made a campaign stop at Arewa Local Government Area. The APC campaign machinery took to nooks and crannies of Arewa Local Government, where they held series of meetings with their supporters, community leaders to garner support for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the Presidential flag bearer of APC, the Kebbi gubernatorial candidate, Dr Nasir Idris, Kauran Gwandu, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu as the candidate for Kebbi Central Senatorial Zone and all APC candidates. Speaking at the palace of the District Head of Bachaka, the APC DG campaign, Alhaji Saidu Nasamu Dakingari, expressed satisfaction with the warm reception from the District Head, Mai Arewan Bachaka, Yakubu Maiyaki and his people. He called on the people of the area to unite under one party, the platform of APC to continue to reap the dividends of democracy.   Dakingari assured the teeming APC supporters that the APC gubernatorial candidate, Dr Nasir Idris, Kauran Gwandu would sustain the developmental projects carried out by the incumbent administration of Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu and even improve upon them. The campaign DG said the people of Bachaka were direct beneficiaries of government projects particularly roads that have enhanced the economic fortunes of the area. ”Economic activities of this area have peaked due to the roads provided by the government. How many truck loads of food ply this road on daily basis?,” he asked. He charged the people to vote for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the next President of Nigeria, Kauran Gwandu, as the next governor of Kebbi State as well as all APC candidates from top to bottom. ”Kaura will never let you down, he is gentle,honest and a progressive, vote for Kaura,’ he appealed. The APC gubernatorial candidate, Dr Nasir Idris, also expressed appreciation to the District Head of Bachaka for receiving them warmly. Kauran Gwandu assured them that, if elected as the next governor, he would improve on the record of achievements left by former Governor, Alhaji Saidu Nasamu Dakingari and the incumbent administration of Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu. “Government is all about people, developing and empowering people to better their lives. Vote for the APC, we shall fulfill our promises,” he vowed. He commended Mai Arewan Bachaka for the peaceful coexistence of people in his domain, urging them to collect their PVCs and vote for APC.