In line with its Environmental Policy and as enshrined in the EIA Act CAP E12, LFN 2004, arrangements are in top gear for the panel review stage of the Environmental Impact Assessment for Dangote Cement Coal Mills at its Ibese, Ogun State plant, which will be facilitated by the Federal Ministry of Environment (FMEnv). Dangote Cement Plc, Ibese Plant had instituted an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) study with the Federal Ministry of Environment (FMEnv) for its coal mill in accordance with regulations and had carried out robust community engagement sessions with primary host communities including Ibese town, Ijako Orile and Aga Olowo as part of the process.  The planned review is sequel to the completion of the draft ESIA Report and submission to the Federal Ministry of Environment Abuja, after display at strategic locations, including the Yewa North Local Government Area (LGA) council by the Ministry. The public display ran from 15th June to 13th July 2022, during which various concerns raised by the stakeholders were noted, which would be considered during the coming review. Group Chief, Branding and Communications Officer, Dangote Industries Limited, Mr. Anthony Chiejina explained that the company was getting ready to prepare the ground for the review of the report to be conducted by the officials of the Federal Ministry of Environment. He assured that the Public Review Workshop stage of the ESIA is the step in the process specially designed to physically gather all the stakeholders for analysis and examination of the report earlier gathered for concurrence on the next steps. “Following communication to the Ministry of Environment as to the readiness of the company to host the Panel Review workshop, the Ministry of Environment, subsequently advised the Company on the mode of framework and schedule for the review via a letter dated January 3, 2023. “According to the letter, the review is scheduled to take place in the first quarter of 2023.  To this end, DCP has commenced, to an advanced stage, payment of the fees requested by the Ministry and making arrangement for the workshop venue,” Mr. Chiejina explained, while assuring of Dangote Cement’s commitment to following the EIA process as instituted by the Federal Ministry of Environment. The Dangote Group spokesperson reiterated the position of the Company in protecting its host community in all its operations by ensuring that all activities are geared towards environmental sustainability as a core pillar by identifying, measuring, and mitigating actual and potential negative environmental footprints in all its operations. “This we have spelt out in our environmental pillar mission, which is that our goal is to improve our performance in energy efficiency, waste management, water consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and to leverage the opportunities in environmental responsibility, such as the medium to long term cost efficiency and reputational capital offered by the circular economy business model”, he added.