From Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, yesterday, said  talks with his political allies on the presidential candidate to support in the February 25 election would soon be concluded. He maintained that the people of the state know their political bearings and would not play second fiddle who to vote for on  February 25 and March 11, 2023. Wike spoke at St. Martin’s Anglican Church, Omagwa Town, venue of the local government campaign flag-off Rally of the Rivers State Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP) in Ikwerre Local Government Area yesterday. He said Rivers people have been duly sensitised and told to vote the candidates of PDP for governorship, Senate, House of Representatives and State House of Assembly. The governor, who urged the people to be calm, maintained that when the final decision of the  presidential candidate the state will support would be taken, Rivers electorate will be notified. “As we finish from here now, you’ll go home and start working before the appropriate time when we will ring the bell. When you hear the bell being rang, know that the decision has been taken.” He said the beauty of the forthcoming election was that it would leave no room for any form of electoral manipulation and intimidation from security personnel. “This time, no army will do anything, no police will do anything. Now, it is one man, one vote. All the votes must be in one basket from governorship to House of Assembly. The other one we are concluding. When we conclude, you will be told. Nobody should intimidate you, nobody should tell you any story. We are free born of this country, we are not second class citizens. Nobody can tell us anything, I dare them, let anybody do any funny thing, we’ll tell them we are from Rivers State.”  Governor Wike explained that governance was not about story telling but in performance that translates into making living easier for the people and seeing them happy. He said the PDP governorship candidate, Siminialayi Fubara, would consolidate on the successes of his administration and urged the electorate to support him to win. Wike insisted that the forthcoming election would be a fight to finish so that those who have now placed themselves as enemies of the State, to sell it for pottage, would be taught a lesson.