From Olanrewaju Lawal, Birnin Kebbi The National Directorate of Employment (NDE) has given out empowerment tools, equipment and cash to 26 unemployed youths under the Environmental Beautification Training Scheme (EBTS) of the agency in Kebbi State. The tools include pumping machines, POP tools, horticulture tools and cash. Director General of the agency, Mallam Abubakar Nuhu Fikpo presented the tools and cash to the beneficiaries in Birnin Kebbi. Fikpo, who was represented by a Director of EBTS, Mrs. Roseline Olaomi Silvia, charged the beneficiaries to utilise the tools and cash judiciously and retuned the loan in order for other citizens to benefits from it. “Be informed that this disbursement of basic working tools and equipment has been going on in all the states of the federation and the FCT. A total of 962 EBTS trainees who hitherto were engaged as unemployed Nigerians are being empowered nationwide. “What we are witnessing today forms part of the Directorate’s contribution to join the Federal Government’s crusade in lifting 100 million Nigerians out of poverty,” he stated. The NDE DG, who urged the beneficiaries to utilise the tools very well, said their dreams could become a reality if they put in more efforts, be more hardworking, diligent and relentless in their endeavours. and charged them to always serve as good ambassadors of the NDE. He commended the 16 female beneficiaries for showing interest in the scheme and advised them to be good examples to other women. In his remarks, Coordinator of the agency in Kebbi State, Mr Ambianto Amos Francis, explained that eight POP beneficiaries were given N151,125 each with equipment, two interlock beneficiaries were given N50,717 each while 16 Horticulture beneficiaries were given N51,554 each. He urged them to make use of the tools and the cash given to them, stressing that the loan that must be repaid for others to benefits. Others who spoke at the event also commended the NDE and urged the beneficiaries to take advantage of the opportunity. Such dignitaries include the House of Assembly member representing Birnin Kebbi North, Hon Umaru Morocco, and the traditional ruler of the area, Magajin Bunga, Alhaji Idris Umar. While responding on behalf of other beneficiaries, Nasiru Muhammad commended the NDE for the efforts to give the beneficiaries empowerment.