By Christopher Oji The Lagos State Taskforce said it impounded 8,642 vehicles, 18,537 commercial motorcycle (Okada)for various traffic offenses and crushed 18, 120 motorcycles in the year 2022. Chairman, Lagos State Taskforce, CSP Shola Jejeloye, yesterday,during the review of the operational activities of the Agency in the  year 2022, in his office at Oshodi, said the briefing was in a bid to identify areas of where improvemnts could be made, and to identify new frontiers that would help facilitate the growth and development of the metropolis. He said: “In the year under review, we impounded 8,642 vehicles for various traffic offenses,ranging from driving on one-way, obstructing the free flow of traffic, driving on the reserved BRT corridor, and parking to pick or drop off passengers at unapproved bus stops in Lagos. “Also,the year under review witnessed the ban on the operations of commercial motorcycles popularly known as okada in nine local government areas,and six LCDAs within the State, leading to confiscation and seizure of 18,537 motorcycles for operating despite the ban. After court proceedings, 17,980 bikes were crushed in Alausa to serve as a deterrent to other intending Okada operators. “It was quite a herculean task enforcing the ban on the operations of Okada in Lagos, but we were up to the task. We carried out sting operations on various Highways and other restricted routes to ensure that their activities were truncated. A total of 156 riders and 122 passengers were made to face the mobile court for patronizing the unwanted kada Operators.” The Chairman also highlighted some of the lofty feats attained by the agency in year 2022, which were the raids  of criminal hideouts, arrest of one-chance syndicates, demolition of shanties posing environmental hazards to Lagosians, and bringing the activities of land grabbers in the state to almost a zero level. He further disclosed that the Lagos State Taskforce, made series of arrests of unscrupulous individuals who specialised in vandalizing both public and private owned properties, adding that  the suspects   were  made to face the full wrath of the law. “These are part of the gains achieved as a result of the synergy between agencies of the State Government through providing security backup for them when they encounter hinderance in the process of carrying out their legitimate duties” Environmental infractions were not left out by the Chairman who hinted that there would be more raids and activities in areas like illegal mechanic villages, and car parks where environmental pollution is predominant.