By Daniel Kanu Following the outbreak of an unknown deadly flu leading to the death of residents in China, including three Nigerians, China Centre for Disease Control (China CDC) has raised that alarm on the deadly symptoms of the unknown flu. This is as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) is advising for re-visiting of COVID-19 measures to be on the safe side. China’s disease control agency said that although some of the symptoms are similar to that of COVID-19, it is not as initial clinical analysis ruled out COVID-19. The development jolted the office of SGF to writing the Health Minister, the DG, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, as well as the Executive Director/CEO, National Primary Health Care Development Agency, to draw their attention to the deadly development. In a letter to the two agencies and the health ministry, made available to Sunday Sun, and signed by Aliyu Mohammed, Permanent Secretary, the SGF harped on the need to rise to the challenge and not be taken unawares by the deadly outbreak. Also, the SGF said that in view of the potential danger to human life, there may be need for greater caution by putting measures to reactivate COVID-19 measures. The letter reads in part: “Am to draw your attention to a report which revealed that the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (China CDC) on 13th December, 2022 raised concerns over the outbreak of an unknown deadly flu, following the death of some residents which included three Nigerians. “The initial clinical analysis ruled out COVID-19, but the symptoms of the fatal flu include dry throat, fever and difficulty in breathing. Hospitals in Guangzhou have been inundated with patients having the disease, with seven Nigerians said to be in critical condition as a result of the flu. “It is assessed that the outbreak of a new deadly flu portends danger considering the experience of the outbreak of COVID-19. Of concern  is the fact that the new flu is yet to be diagnosed, an indication that the flu could have spread beyond the shores of China. “Considering the potential danger of this outbreak to human beings, there may be need to note the development with a view to emplacing measures to reactivate COVID-19 centres across the country”.