The Enugu Electricity Distribution Company (EEDC), has said its customers will now obtain their prepaid metres 48 hours after they enroll in the ongoing mobile Metre Asset Provider (MAP) programme. Mr Vincent Ekwekwu, the Chief Technical Officer of EEDC, said this at the commencement of mobile MAP programme for customers in Anambra held in Ogidi, Idemili North LGA on Wednesday. Ekwekwu called in unmetered customers in the area to take advantage of the programme as it would lead to the end of estimated billing in payment for power supplied. He said the programme would be mutually beneficial to the company and customers as it would result to fair pricing and prompt payment of energy consumed. According to him, the whole essence is to increase patronage and close metering gap because people are complaining that they are no longer comfortable with estimated billing. “But with this arrangement, era of estimated and post-paid is gone, apart from the smart prepaid meters being recharged online, you can now regulate your supply and manage your energy,” he said. On the safety of installation in the network area, Ekwekwu said the company was determined to tackling incidences of vandalism. He said the company was engaging local vigilance group, Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC) and other security agencies to assist in safeguarding the assets. “We need more government intervention, especially in the area of regulation because these stolen items are sold in the open markets, if there is a regulation, it becomes almost impossible to dispose them easily,” he said. Speaking at the event, Mr Julius Chukwuemeka, Commissioner for Power and Water Resources in Anambra, urged people of the state to take advantage of the mobile MAP programme to improve their value experience. He said the Anambra government was committed to 24-hour power supply in the state and would sign an MoU to encourage private sector investment in the energy sector. Mr Emeka Ezeh, Head, Corporate Communications of EEDC said the exercise would allow customers to pay, get metered, and get reimbursed with the value of the cost of the metre through energy supplied over a period of time. He said the single-phase meter sold for N63,061.27 while the three -phase meter goes for N117,910.69 inclusive of VAT.