By Josfyn Uba  Adesola Adeyemi is an international supermodel. Interestingly, she rose from obscurity to become one of the first indigenous Nigerian models to work with world-renowned brands. She spoke to Daily Sun recently  Taking a step back in time, how you were discovered by a model scout on campus? I find it so funny a story. I was a first-year student at the University of Lagos (UNILAG) studying Accounting, and I had a funny way of dressing. I was always dressed in colours, especially pink or purple, and would always wear high heels everywhere, because, in my mind I was a model, even though I had no background exposure to modelling.    Prior to meeting that scout, I had come across people who pretended to be helping me get a modelling contract but I never stopped telling people about my interest in modelling.  I was walking in my high heels from Makama Hostel to the UNILAG gate one day, and then this guy stops me, saying: “Are you a model?” And my response was “Yes.” And he said, “What agency are you with?” and I responded, “None, I am trying to find one.” And then he said he would introduce me to a modelling agent named Erigks. I was excited but at the same time nervous, as a young lady who didn’t want to fall prey to predators. I questioned him and decided to give a call to the agent who told me to come see him. And I remember going with a friend just to feel safe. When the agent saw me, he immediately said I should audition for Nigeria’s Next Super Model. I wasn’t actually prepared, and didn’t know about the contest. Thankfully, I got selected, participated and was first runner-up in the competition.     Afterwards, my agent approached me to participate in Ghana Fashion Week. I did the shows and was awarded Best Model Ghana Fashion Week 2013.   My zeal for modelling increased but I was barely making money. In 2014, I contested in Most Beautiful Girl in Nigeria (MBGN), and represented Katsina State. Unfortunately, the pageant clashed with my 300 level exams, which made me miss the MBGN camp. My little participation in the MBGN contest gave me the opportunity to meet a scout from Elite Model Look Nigeria, who encouraged me to participate in the competition.   What has been your experience on international runways?  My experience on international runways has been like a fantasy come true. I get very emotional, as it reminds me of when I used to model in Lagos, and I would say to myself: One day, I will walk on the runway during New York Fashion Week. And, to be honest, being a model doesn’t guarantee you a free pass to walk in international shows. It takes a lot of hard work, discipline, dedication and mental care.  You get to cast with different casting directors, which is usually one of the most draining periods for models, as you become very conscious of your looks and body. Sometimes you get to face lots of rejections, which can lead to you being insecure, regardless of how beautiful or confident.   What about the designers and brands you have worked with?  I have worked with a lot of designers and brands, ranging from fashion, editorials, beauty brands and advertisements.   I have worked with amazing designers like Burberry, Pamela Roland, Nicole Miller, Sherri Hill, Chiara Boni la Petite, Christian Cowan, Am Sale, Carolina Herera, Patbo, Alice and Olivia, and too many others to mention.  I have also worked with most beauty brands in the USA and abroad, including L’Oreal, Maybelline, Clea de Peau, Kjaer Weis, Mac, Nars Cosmetics, Laurer Mercier, Shisheido, Bare Minerals, Glam Glow, and so many more.   I have also done major advertisements with major brands like Saks Fifth Avenue, Macys, TJ Maxx, Nautica and many more. It’s so much fun knowing you can work with a diverse range of clients rather than feeling like you are put in a box.   How did you get the big break and what are some of the lessons learnt on the job? I would say my drive and dedication have played a major role, as most people see the glamorous side that models portray, but behind this glamour there have been lots of tears and disappointments.  One thing I have learnt on the job is that what is meant for you will be for you. There is really no set way on getting a breakthrough. What works for others might not necessarily work of you. Always keep a positive outlook, even when rejected. I remember my first beauty campaign casting. There were hundreds of girls and I saw beautiful girls of different races, and it felt like I didn’t even stand a chance. But I was able to win the casting directors over because of my positive approach and how I sold myself. I was told to crack a joke and I made fun of myself about how I brought an Ankara gele to the casting, as I misunderstood the instruction of “bring a hair tie” to mean “a scarf head tie.” And when the models were told to show their hair tie, every one brought out hair bands and I got so confused and felt like I messed up. Instead of backing out, I made a joke about the situation, got people to laugh, and guess what? I booked my first beauty campaign. Having started professional modelling in your mid-teens, what has changed between then and now? A whole lot has changed. I feel more respected as a model now because I am in a society where it’s actually seen as a real job rather than then where I was in a society where models were not respected or were seen as immoral.  The income difference between then and now is quite significant. I remember my first beauty campaign. I finished within 15 minutes on set and was told I was done. I was so scared and begged them asking if I did anything wrong, because in my mind if you are paying a decent amount of money, I expected to work for long hours. So when they said to me, “the job is done, your pictures are amazing, we don’t have to hold you here for so long after achieving what we want,” I was amazed.    Now, you are defending models’ rights. What inspired you to do this and what are some of the achievements?  Right from my teenage years, I have always been outspoken about model rights, and also spoke up for other young girls,  because I had been a victim as well as watched other young girls fall victim. Especially as a young model who is actually modelling to make ends meet, you come across predators in the industry.    I am a very passionate person and never scared to speak up for what is right, regardless of the situation.    I have come a long way and have helped young girls better understand and stand for their rights. Now that I am based in the USA, I spoke up during a Black Lives Matter live event organized by One Management, exposing the prejudice going on against people of colour in the industry. The industry is not really a glamorous one and has affected a lot of models’ mental health in different ways, which made me speak up about mental health in the fashion industry at the Cornell Fashion Collective, organized by Cornell University.    Tell us about the search for your biological mother, depression and now life as a mental health advocate… This is a tough one for me.  I was hidden from my mum, so I didn’t grow up knowing who my mother was, which took a toll on my mental health. But I was that child who even though I felt broken within me I knew how to create a facade to cover my sadness. I was always jovial and kept it a secret.  I had always hoped that one day I would know who my mother was and this also pushed my drive in wanting to be in the showbiz such that maybe, one day she would hear of my name through a media outlet.  When I graduated university and was planning on ways to model abroad, I always thought to myself, “is this how I have grown, can I decide to marry and have kids and still not know who my mother is?”  These thoughts would come to my mind sometimes, and would break me, causing me meltdowns, and I still wouldn’t tell people what was wrong.  One day, I was at Alpha beach with some friends, and suddenly I became very emotional again, so I left my friends and decided to be alone by the water, they all thought I was weird, but I knew it was time to communicate with my creator.  I am a very spiritual person and love to bond with nature. I got deep into my thoughts while connecting with the water and decided to use some spoken words – which is my strength. I remember it was December 24, and I said before the year runs out that I wanted my mother revealed to me, otherwise I will not believe in any supernatural being and would become an atheist. I knew the year would be over in a few days but that was my challenge to my God.  And you know what? God listened and answered. Through a series of divinely-inspired events, I found my mother.   What are some of the challenges you’ve encountered?  My first entry into the United States in the process of scouting for agencies wasn’t a smooth one. I didn’t have the best experience with immigration officers at the airport. It was later that I realized I had probably been racially profiled. The officer who attended to me lied against me, saying I had stated that I came to America to work for some people – and that was not true, as I had never said anything along those lines.  How has working on the international scene influenced your career? It has given me so much exposure, and the opportunity to work with international clients, clients with big names. Also, making a reasonable income through my career to be able to afford a place for myself in the heart of Manhattan has given me the opportunity to fend for myself, and still pamper myself occasionally, while still being able to provide for families and other people.