From Uche Usim, Abuja If you are one of those clinging tenaciously to the myth that car ownership is an expensive undertaking, then have a rethink because you can actually maintain certain cars on a low budget. Some cars are purely luxury and they are for deep pockets, while some are utility vehicles with basic features that can be maintained by those in the lower social strata, provided they stick to basic operational rules. First things first Before buying a car, learn how to drive. Learn it well. Do not rush. Let your teacher be an experienced driver. He or she should expose you to the rudiments like understanding the basic checklist. This includes knowing how to check for engine oil level using the dip stick, observing the tyres routinely to ensure they’re not under-inflated or over-inflated and knowing the expiry date; checking radiator water level, brake fluid, transmission oil level, power steering oil, determining battery life using the indicator guide on the battery, etcetera. These must be done daily and it takes less than two minutes to run through them. Again, know road signs well. It helps. Know the car to buy This is very vital. Don’t get dragged into clout-chasing when trying to buy a car. You’re not in competition with anyone, because the maintenance is your responsibility. You know your financial worth. So, go for something small and affordable, especially if it’s your first car. Go online and read about the car. Read loads of reviews. Read about the popular faults, factory recalls, etcetera. Read and inquire about the cost of repairs and parts replacement, especially the engine and gearbox. Seek expert opinion and go with a trusted mechanic, especially if it’s not a new vehicle. The mechanic should go with a good diagnosis tool to detect inherent snags, if any. Go for smaller, Japanese vehicles with four cylinders. They have the highest number of mechanics by geographical spread. Again, they are usually cheaper to maintain and guzzle less fuel. After purchase Read the owner’s manual well. Seek illumination for gray areas. The pain you take to read it is your gain. It will save you lots of money, embarrassment and inconvenience because you will discover that there are a lot of things you can do yourself using the manufacturer’s guide. For example, tyre change, especially on lonely roads where there are no mechanics and vulcanisers to assist in an urgent need to take out a bad tyre and install the spare. Knowing some basic things won’t make you vulnerable for Shylock mechanics to feast on you. Ignorance is expensive. Do not overspeed Please, take this seriously. Speed kills because control is tougher and tumbling is easier. Aside from that, it stresses the car and more fuel is expended. Again, wear and tear is more rapid, culminating in costly maintenance. It’s safer not to go above 100km/h on highways when on road trips and far less than that when driving within the city. Drive slowly on bad roads It doesn’t matter what is spurring you to go very fast, but hit the brakes when on bad roads. They are the greatest adversaries to vehicles and vandalises the suspension system. Go as slowly as you possibly can and make this a habit. Otherwise, you would be a regular guest of the mechanic and each visit not only digs deep into your pocket but shrinks the lifespan of your vehicle. Generally practice preventive maintenance This is another major attribute of a car owner who wants to ensure a longer durability for his vehicle. Don’t wait till your car disgraces you in the middle of the road before you have it mechanically evaluated by a good technician. Granted that cars as man-made machines can malfunction at any time, this is not a reason to be careless. Use mileage to determine when next your vehicle is due for oil change. Do not wait till it turns to grease before doing so. It’s a recipe disaster. The same applies to transmission fluid. If you always hear squeaky sounds when you brake, it’s possible your brake pads are worn-out or bad (substandard). Take the car to the mechanic immediately to ascertain what may be amiss. If not, you may end up damaging the brake discs and that’s a whole lot of expenses. Again, if your transmission is sluggish, visit a repair shop. It may be a transmission fluid change, which is cheaper. If you ignore it, your entire gearbox may be destroyed and your vehicle grounded. Have a functional comprehensive or third party insurance policy This is a good protection for vehicle owners, not just to ward off nosy policemen or vehicle inspection officials. In the event of certain types of accident, the insurance saves you money as the repair is borne by them.