From Okwe Obi, Abuja Please enable JavaScript The New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) has urged the presidential candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Atiku Abubakar, respectively, to excuse themselves from next month’s polls over accusations of graft. Tinubu, through the spokesman for the APC Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), Festus Keyamo, had urged security agencies to arrest and prosecute Atiku for allegedly stealing public funds by using what he termed Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs) during his reign as vice president between 1999 – 2007. Atiku, on the other hand, fired back, accusing the APC candidate of attempting to divert attention from the alleged misrule of the ruling party under President Muhamamdu Buhari. The PDP candidate, in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary of his presidential campaign council, Debo Ologunagba, stated: “The PDP demands that Tinubu should withdraw from the presidential contest, on account of his reported forfeiture of $460,000 in the United States. “The effect of the conviction and forfeiture of the sum of $460,000 by Asiwaju Tinubu confirms that he is ineligible and not qualified to contest for the Office of the President of Nigeria as required by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended). Piqued by ceaseless tirade, NNPP’s National Publicity Secretary, Major Agbo, noted that the duo lacked the moral rectitude to govern the country. “The New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) has urged the presidential candidates of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to withdraw from the presidential race over serious allegations of corruption and drug peddling that have made a mockery of the 2023 general election. “Nigeria has been brought to ridicule and disrepute before the comity of nations over accusations of high-level corruption and drug peddling against Atiku and Tinubu. He that goes to equity must come with a clean hand. “NNPP demands the immediate withdrawal of both presidential candidates to answer to charges preferred against them in court. It is justice juxtaposed for them to continue in the presidential race with heavy allegations of wrongdoings on their shoulders. It is a moral burden fie the two candidates to continue in this race at a time Nigerians are looking for a younger and unblemished crop of leaders. “There is no moral justification for Atiku and Tinubu to strive to rule the nation until the court decides their fates one way or the other. “National interest supersedes personal interests, aggrandisement and grandstanding in the quest for a better, greater, progressive, equitable and just democratic nation. “Nigerians are tired of recycled politicians who have numerous cases of corruption, drugs, birth/educational certificates, health and questionable source of wealth. “Citizens want men and women of integrity, visionary, purposeful, resourceful, dynamic and transformational leaders to usher them to a new and better Nigeria we all desire and deserve,” he said. Agbor, therefore called on eligible voters to support NNPP’s standard bearer, Rabiu Kwankwaso, whom he claimed has credentials to lead the country effectively. “Senator (Engr) Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, PhD is the man of the moment to give Nigerians a new lease of life after years of wandering in political wilderness from the oppressive APC and PDP regimes. “Eligible Nigerians should collect their PVCs now and let their voice be heard loud and clear in the forthcoming elections. “Your vote is your power to elect credible, resourceful, courageous and progressive leaders that will deliver dividends of democracy to the masses not carnage,” he said.