By Wilfred Eya Stakeholders in Enugu West Senatorial zone have assured the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP), Dr Peter Mbah in the state of their total support in the forthcoming general election. Following a successful reconciliation of aggrieved members, the stakeholders across the five local government areas in the zone converged on Umuabi in Udi Local Government Area of the state on Sunday to reaffirm their support and loyalty to the PDP and its standard bearer, describing the zone as a safe haven for the governorship frontrunner. The convener of the meeting, Victor Udeh in his welcome address, said the essence of the gathering was to further unite their people, strengthen the bonds among them, create a veritable platform for the stakeholders to work together and show their unflinching support for the gubernatorial project of Dr. Mbah. While emphasizing on the theme of the meeting, “Enugu West Stakeholders Meeting: Succeeding Together,” Udeh disclosed that it’s only when they’re united that they would make meaningful impact in the zone. To assure Dr. Mbah that they have taken ownership of the PDP gubernatorial election, the reputable lawyer noted that the zone did not produce any governorship candidate across different political parties. In their separate speeches, the Chairman of the council area, Philip Okoh, Deputy Director General, Enugu West PDP Campaign Organisation, Hon. Ogbuefi Ozomgbachi, PDP candidates for Udi/Ezeagu, as well as Aninri/Awgu/Oji Federal Constituencies, Dr. Festus Uzor and Anayo Onwuegbu, respectively, the party’s senatorial candidate, Osita Ngwu, PDP Zonal Chairman, Ozo Okey Ozoani, commended the initiative behind the meeting, saying it was a right step taken by the zone. They called for the spirit of true reconciliation and forgiveness for the progress of the people, adding that the presence of the dignitaries at the gathering was an indication that the area is intact for the PDP and its respective candidates. Ngwu observed that the crowd of people at the event were drawn from towns, communities, villages in the zone who had come to show their support for the PDP gubernatorial standard bearer. The speakers further urged the stakeholders to take the campaign to their people in their respective political wards and polling units and ensure they collect their voter’s cards from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). They noted that they earlier had a reconciliatory dinner where aggrieved members were pacified and pledged to work together both in the February and March general elections to deliver massive votes for the party. An elder statesman and one of the leaders of the zone, Senator Hyde Onuaguluchi, State PDP Secretary, Hon. Cletus Akalusi, the Minority Leader in the National Assembly, Toby Okechukwu, among others, applauded the stakeholders for speaking with one voice and for their resoluteness in assuring Dr. Mbah that they would not lose a single vote to opposition parties in the zone. They observed that Dr. Mbah had proven himself to be an uncommon investor, entrepreneur, go-getter with a can-do spirit in the private sector where his company is presently a market leader in the oil and gas downstream sub-sector of the economy in the country. Appealing to the stakeholders to go back to their political bases and pull 100 per cent votes for the ruling party, the Deputy Governor of the state, Hon. Mrs. Cecilia Ezeilo, echoed that the only way they can succeed collectively is by being their brother’s keepers which means they’ve to work together in peace. She called on all the candidates of the PDP to work with everybody in the party by carrying them along through inclusive governance. In his reaction, Dr. Mbah expressed appreciation at the honour and respect the stakeholders accorded him by drumming massive support and mobilisation for his candidacy. He saluted the spirit of ownership, reconciliation, consolidation and warm support in the zone, maintaining that his endorsement was a reassurance that success for the party has been sealed. Dr. Mbah, while responding to the questions and demands made by the people, reiterated that all their needs were already captured in his manifesto which he would spare no time in implementing when he assumes office as governor in May, 2023. He charged the electorate to avail themselves the remaining days open for the collection of voter’s cards and make sure they’re in possession of their voting power. Enumerating his governance strategy to transform the state, the governorship hopeful said the state under his leadership will migrate to a digital economy, productively engage the youths in massive employments through adequate training in ICT and 21st century skills that will enable them fit into the unprecedented industrial revolution his administration will enable. He promised to address injustice, empower women in meaningful ventures, and provide 100 billion naira startup capital to encourage small, medium and micro-scale enterprises in the state. According to him, his proposed 10,000 kilometres of roads will address and fix the roads and bridges they complained about, adding that access road to farmlands, markets and their communities will be fixed. He vowed to wage war against hunger, poverty, unemployment and engage youths in different skills while strengthening community policing, even as he would invest heavily on modern security architecture and intelligence.