From Tunde Omolehin, Sokoto Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State, has condemned the  attack on his motorcade on Sunday. Also, the Governor, has vowed to bring the perpetrators of the dastardly attack to book to serve as deterrent to others. Suspected thugs had stormed the Governor’s convoy with hail of stones in the state capital, Sokoto, while he was returning from campaign tour to Silame,and Wammako local government areas of the state. No fewer than two vehicles in the fleet were damaged by the attackers, according to a source. Tambuwal told journalists at the close of a stakeholders meeting with political appointees in the state, that some of the attackers have been arrested and wouls soon be prosecuted. “The matter is being investigated by the security agencies. Some arrests have been made . “It is unfortunate that yesterday, on our way back from Wammako, at the Senatorial office of Aliyu Magatakarda Wammako, some hoodlums attacked my convoy on our way to the Government House. We cannot condone any culture of violence in Sokoto state. We cannot afford to toy with the fragile peace in the state. “I, therefore, urge all political leaders in Sokoto to eschew violence; and to advise all their followers and supporters, to go out and campaign peacefully; and look for votes, and not perpetrate violence. “As you know, we believe in peace. We have been preaching peace and peaceful coexistence in Sokoto state, irrespective of political party differences, lineage or persuasions,” he added.  According to the state Commissioner for Information, Hon. Akibu Dalhatu, in a separate press briefing, the attackers gang leader said to be on the watchlist of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in the last three month for allegedly attacking their personnel, was one of those apprehended.  The Commissioner said Mai Adda also destroyed some vehicles in the Governor’s convoy,and stole five motorcycles after attacking PDP supporters at the campaign ground in Wamakko.