Thousands of Catholics and others on January 5, 2023, bid farewell to the former Catholic Pontiff, Emeritus Pope Benedict XVI, at a funeral Mass conducted by Pope Francis in St. Peter’s Square at the Vatican. Hundreds of priests, bishops and cardinals participated in the Mass. Also, many world leaders paid glowing tributes to the late former Pontiff. Pope Benedict died at his residence in the Vatican on December 31, 2022 at the age of 95.   His successor, Pope Francis, described him as a noble and kind man as well as a gift to the church. He hailed him for the sacrifices he offered for the good of the church. The Head of the Catholic Church in England and Wales, Cardinal Vincent Nichols, said Benedict was one of the greatest theologians of the 20th century. United States President, Joe Biden, noted that Benedict “will be remembered as a renowned theologian, with a lifetime of devotion to the church, guided by his principles and faith.” Italy’s Prime Minister, Giorgia Meloni, described him as a giant of faith and reason, saying, “he put his life at the service of the universal Church and spoke, and will continue to speak, to the hearts and minds of men with the spiritual, cultural and intellectual depth of his Magisterium.” Some other world leaders who paid glowing tributes included British Prime Minister, Rishi Sunak; French President, Emmanuel Macron; German Chancellor, Olaf Scholz; and Russian President, Vladimir Putin. Born as Joseph Ratzinger on April 16, 1927 in Germany, Pope Benedict XVI was the youngest of three children with a very strong Catholic background. His father, a policeman and his mother, a hotel cook, were hostile to the Nazi regime, which took over power in Germany in 1933. He entered the seminary in 1939. But, compelled to join the Hitler Youth in 1941, the young Ratzinger was drafted into the German military in 1943. He served in the anti-aircraft unit in Bavaria. This unit defended a BMW plant outside Munich. In April of that same year, he deserted the military, but was captured by American forces that held him prisoner for a brief period.   Between 1946 and 1951, he studied Philosophy and Theology at Munich University. In June 1951, he was ordained a priest and in 1953, he bagged a doctorate degree in Theology from the University of Munich. He taught Dogma and Theology at the higher school of philosophy and theology in Freising after he got his teaching licence in 1957. In 1959, he moved to the University of Bonn where he taught until 1969 before moving to the University of Regensburg where he rose to become the vice-president.   In March 1977, Pope Paul VI appointed him the archbishop of Munich and Freising. Three months later, he bestowed the cardinal’s hat on him. Pope John Paul II (1978-2005) made him prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of Faith in November 1981. As prefect, he condemned liberation theology and earned a reputation as a hardliner. Pope Benedict XVI was head of the Catholic Church from 2005 to 2013. He made history when he became the first Pope in almost 600 years to resign (since Gregory XII in 1415) from the papacy. That was in 2013 after about eight years on the seat. He cited old age and failing health as reasons for his resignation. He spent his final years at the Mater Ecclesiae Monastery within the Vatican. His papacy faced several hurdles and controversies. One of such hurdles is a reported decline in church attendance and vocations. The scandal surrounding the church’s handling of sexual and physical abuses by priests, especially in Germany, Ireland and the United States, was also part of his headache. At some point in 2010, the allegations attracted greater media attention. In fact, Benedict was accused of covering up cases of sexual abuse as prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith. The Vatican, nevertheless, denied the charge, saying it was false and calumnious. Benedict also published what he called Domine Jesus (The Lord Jesus) in 2000, a book many people regarded as being too controversial. In 2009, Benedict stirred up some controversy when he approved a special decree which allowed Anglican clergymen and laypersons to join the Catholic Church even as they still maintain their Anglican traditions. Some of his theological works include Introduction to Christianity (1968), and Dogma and Revelation (1973). He was an accomplished pianist with great love for Mozart and Brahms. The late Catholic Pontiff was humble, gentle and humorous. He spoke many languages, including English, French, Germany, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish.  We commiserate with the Vatican and Catholics around the world over the great loss. Goodbye Emeritus Pope Benedict XVI.