There are fear  and apprehension among residents of Kafin Koro community in Paikoro local Government Area of Niger state as the Nigeria Police, withdrew their personnels from the community following the burning down of the Command’s  Divisional Headquarters by some angry youths. Kafin Koro, and its environs have come under serious attacks from gunmen suspected to be bandits, and cattle rustlers in recent time, the latest being the killing of late Rev. Fr. Achi of St. Peter, and Paul Catholic Church,Kafin Koro two week ago. However, a source close to the police authority told our correspondent that the police would  not return to the town until there is provision for office accommodation for its personnels after the burning of the  Divisional Headquarters, adding that, “where do you expect the police to operate from, under the tree or where”, the source queried. The youths who burnt the police station were said to be angry over the inability of the police to rescue late Rev. Fr. Isaac Achi,who was murdered by some gunmen suspected to be bandits two weeks ago. despite several distress calls by the deceased. In their numbers, they took to the major road of the town in a peaceful protest to the police divisional headquarters in the town to register their displeasure over the gruesome murder of the Catholic Priest, but the peaceful protest later turned violent, leading to an alleged killing of two youths. The youths in retaliation, burn down the police station, and this informed the decision of the Police Authority to shutdown its’s  operation in the town over fear of possible attack on it personnels. However two days after the violent confrontations, police in a statement by its Public Relation Officer, DSP Wasiu Abiodun said 19 youths were arrested but a source from the community told our correspondent that no fewer than 62 people, mostly youths were arrested in connection with the burning of the Police station, but 25 of them were later charged to court by the police. This is even as political leaders in the community insisted that policemen involved in the shooting of the peaceful protesters must also be charged to court alongside the youths. An All Progressive Congress (APC) House of Representatives candidate for Paikoro/Bosso Constituency for 2023 elections, Mr. Yusuf Kure said though he condemned any act of violence no matter the level of provocation, the policeman who opened fire and killed peaceful protesters must also be made to face the law. “I do not in any way support the burning of the police station or any other government infrastructure, but the perpetrators are being arrested, the policeman responsible for the killing of the two people which led to the burning of the station must also be made to face the law,” he said Meanwhile there are fears and apprehension amongst the people in the community over the vulnerability of the town to attack from gunmen following the withdrawal of policemen and complete absence of security in the town.