Flying Eagles invitee Christogonus Ibe has said that his invitation to the national team has reshaped and redirected his career focus for now. Christogonus is one of the 35 players invited by Head Coach of Nigeria’s U-20 national team, Isah Ladan Bosso, to resume camping in Abuja in preparation for this year’s Africa U20 Cup of Nations. The forward who plays for Owerri based amateur side, Chukwuebuka Football Club told our reporter that he is excited by his invitation which he attributed to months of hard work and providence. ‘Various football agents had tried to take me abroad for trials but my manager kept advising against it insisting that I should train and develop myself first on the local scene so as to be ready for the international market”, Ibe said. The gangling top striker said that it has being 2 years of hard work and dedication to training. “I am happy that the effort has pays off with this invitation to the Under 20 National team, which is the dream of every player,” he added. The Ikeduru, Imo State born player said that his focus now  is to prove his worth in camp and make the final list that will represent Nigeria at the Africa U20 Cup of Nations holding in Egypt this year. “I know that making the team will not be a walk through the park considering the quality of other players also in camp but I believe I have what it takes to excel not just in camp but also at the championship in Egypt”. He added that though he has some offers from a few agents but now all such will remain in the cooler because he needs to concentrate on the national assignment. The invited players have commenced training in Abuja as Coach Bosso looks to pick his final squad for the tournament that also serves as the qualifying tournament for this year’s FIFA U20 World Cup finals in Indonesia. The Seven-time African champions Nigeria will do battle with host nation, Egypt, Senegal and Mozambique in Group A of the 12-nation tournament taking place in the cities of Cairo, Alexandria and Ismailia starting on 19th February to 11th March. All four semi-finalists at the championship will fly Africa’s flag at this year’s FIFA U20 World Cup. Uganda, Central African Republic, South Sudan and Congo are in Group B, while The Gambia, Tunisia, Benin Republic and Zambia will slot it out in Group C.