Nigerian international footballer Atto Abbas says he dreams of playing for the national team and can’t wait to put on the green and white colours of his homeland. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Kaduna-born player plays as a winger and central midfielder. The 19-year-old winger decided early on in life that he wanted to pursue a career in football and to make his dream become a reality he joined S.M.C Youth Academy. The academy is owned by former Nigeria and AC Milan legend Mohammed Aliyu Datti. Datti is reputed for its great culture of producing youngsters from northern Nigeria. The 19-year-old spoke on his ambition as a footballer: “My dream is to play for my country. “My role model is Leo Messi. I always try to play like him, his pattern of play, his behaviour with the ball on his foot, I am working to be like Messi. “My plans to get to the top is to work hard for what I want to be and make every opportunity very useful. There’s no denying the fact that he’s making progress. And if he continues to dazzle, big clubs may soon line up for his services or, better still, be called up to represent Nigeria The Kaduna boy is currently working with Fifa Agents, Atta Aneke and Djibril Mandefu. Abbas who has over 6 thousand active followers on Instagram, he is one of the few Nigerian footballers, lucky to have made it out of the academymisfortunes. Several scouts have described Atto as a quality player. Obviously, the Nigerian Winger has yet to display his potential on the world stage, no thanks to an injury occurrence sometime ago and less privileged playing time in the city of Istanbul is not measurable enough to justify the full package of the winger. Atto is a sustainable ability as well as to demonstrate a pure talent for football and has provided numerous moments that exhibit his talent, despite playing less than desired. A top scout described Atto as a different and classy player whose glory is waiting. Djibril Mandefu said: “I exclaimed when I watched him play, he’s like another new Neymar but I think such a player could be a bit unlucky I think patience and focus will unleash him very soon. France could be the next destination for the ambitious midfield who dreams to play and win for Nigeria.