From Stanley Uzoaru, and George Onyejiuwa, Owerri Abducted Sole Administrator of the Ideato North Local Government, Imo State, Christopher Ohizu, has been beheaded. This is as some politicians in the area are reported to have fled to Imo State capital, Owerri for their safety following the killing. However, the Police said they have declared manhunt for the gunmen . It was gathered that Ohizu’s abductors had allegedly received  N6 million ransom before beheading him on Sunday. Ohizu was abducted with bullet wounds alongside two others on Friday after his country home at Imoko community in Arondizuogu area of the state. The  gunmen also razed the LGA premises. Viral videos of his beheading surfaced online on Sunday evening. A source said: “They beheaded the Ideato North Sole Administrator on Sunday. They posted the video of his beheading with his phone on his own WhatsApp status. This was how people got to know that he has been beheaded. “He was sliced after collecting  ransom of N6m. He was killed in such an inhuman way. The videos are terrifying. May God heal our land.” Following the murder of  Ohizu by suspected members of the Indigenous People of Biafra / Eastern Security Network, other council members and members of All Progressive Congre (APC) have reportedly gone under ground . Daily Sun reliably gathered that politicians have fled the council for Owerri,  state capital of Imo state. A source told Daily Sun that the beheading of the council boss has instilled fears in the hearts of other notable politicians forcing them to flee the area to where  they consider safe. He also said that there were  fears and apprehension  for the lives of  APC ward chairman and a member of the campaign council who were abducted alongside the deceased sole administrator last Friday. The source said: “Since the ugly news of the beheading of Christopher Ohizu, filtered in on  Sunday, most of the politicians including notable members of the APC have fled for Owerri for safety as they longer feel safe. “There are fears that those who were abducted with the Sole Administrator may have been killed as well, because those who had abducted them have not contacted their families ever since. “So, we are afraid that they have also been killed. As I speak now, even workers did not turn up for duties.” Meanwhile, the Police  said they have declared  manhunt for the killers of the chairman. Imo  State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Henry Okoye,  in a statement he explained that the command wishes to inform the good people of the State that, we are already on top of the situation following a high powered investigation team, inaugurated by the state  Commissioner of Police, CP Mohammed Ahmed Barde. “We have since commenced technical investigation on the date of the abduction and have been on the trail of the hoodlums where tremendous progress was being made before the surfacing of the obscene video . “However, the Command’s Tactical Teams are not relenting in their efforts to arrest and unravel the identity of the papetrators of this dastardly act with the sole aim of bringing them to face the full wrath of the law.” Okoye stated.