From Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri and Romanus Ugwu, Abuja The Spokesman of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) and candidate of the People’s Democratic Party for Ideato North and South Federal constituency, Ikenga Ugochinyere, yesterday cried out for help as gunmen invaded his Umukegwu, Akokwa in Ideato North Local Government Area of Imo State home, killing his uncle and setting many vehicles in his compound ablaze. The outspoken CUPP stalwart, who was said to have been saved by his police details, had sent out an SOS message to media houses: “This is to notify the general public that this may be my last acts as a human as my house in Umukegwu Akokwa is under heavy attack currently “As I pen this, all the cars in my house have been set ablaze and there is heavy shooting for the past 25 mins. Painfully, as I speak to you, I saw them killed my father’s younger brother, Uncle Dan.” “I pray and call for urgent help from anybody who can help. The attackers are shooting at every one in the house and this is an urgent cry for help. “Security Forces are yet to respond to message of enquiries sent to them on the development.” According to a source from the area, the gunmen who came in large numbers were confronted in a fierce gun duel with Ugochinyere’s police details, thereby preventing them from getting at him. But, his uncle living close to him was said to have been killed during the attack, as well as two other persons yet to be identified. Also, the gunmen were said to have set some houses around his residence and his vehicles on fire. Reacting yesterday, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) condemned in the strongest terms, the attack and arson against the country home of its spokesperson, Ugochinyere. Secretary of the Coalition, Peter Ameh, who made the condemnation, described the attack as unfortunate, barbaric and show of cowardice. “This is one attack too many sponsored against the person of Ikenga Ugochinyere in a bid to silence his voice and stance on critical national issues, more particularly on democracy and the forthcoming 2023 general election. “This attack as disguised as it is, points, however, to some well known anti-democratic forces within the country and their arrow head in Imo State. It is more worrisome that such a mindless attack is coming at a time that the whole world has moved to an era of politics of engagement and contest of ideas. “Some supposed leaders and their minions will descend so low to the point of bringing such a humongous magnitude of destruction of property to an individual just for the single reason that he holds a different political beliefs and stance from theirs is hugely unfortunate, sad and unfathomable. “I, on behalf of the leadership of CUPP and all persons of goodwill, conscience and patriots in Nigeria condemn this attack in all of its ramifications and call on the security agencies to rise to the occasion to fish out the perpetrators of this dastardly acts,” the coalition noted. CUPP, however, “call on the government of President Muhammadu Buhari, the Inspector General of Police and other relevant persons to ensure that nothing is left undone in their efforts to unravel the perpetrators of these grave evil.” Also reacting, the Coalition of Imo young leaders condemned the attack and murder at the residence of Ugochinyere who is also the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party for Ideato North and South Federal constituency. The group in a statement signed by its spokesperson, Mbamala Ebuka Nelto, also charged the security agencies to arrest and ensure that the perpetrators of the attack are brought to book. The statement reads: “We received an SOS from one of the vibrant Imo youths who has made the state proud about an attack at his residence in Ideato. Thereafter, we were informed that some people were killed during the same attack; such is barbaric and must be condemned. The security agencies must ensure that the perpetrators are brought to book and that Ikenga Imo is safe and sound. Nothing, I repeat nothing, must happen to Ikenga or his followers.”