…As Mbah promises to make state one of the top three in Nigeria Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Geoffrey Anyanwu, Enugu The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Enugu state, Peter Mbah has described the G-5 Governors as patriotic Nigerians that are fighting for equity in the country. Speaking during the PDP State Campaign Flag Off at the Okpara Square on Friday, Mbah who with other candidates received the party’s flag from the Deputy National Chairman, South, Amb. Tafik Arabaja assisted by the National Vice Chairman, South East, Ali Odefa, appreciated the G-5 Governors for gracing the flag off. Mbah said the G-5 governor’s were known for their tireless pursuit for equity in Nigeria adding, “Yours is a group that dares to be different by interrogating the political calculus in our country. “Let me also thank you for the brotherly love you have shown to our leader, our mentor, our inspirer. A man that is highly beloved and adored for his humanism and unexampled love for his people. Gburugburu De Great.” The presence of the G-5 Governors, Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, Samuel Ortom of Benue state, Seyi Makinde of Oyo state and host Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, had electrified the campaign flag off as many stormed the venue to see the governors with the hope they would declare their presidential candidate of interest. Mbah said that Enugu state has remained one of the most peaceful and investors friendly state in the country, stressing that his team’s vision is to grow the economy of the state and make it among the best three in Nigeria. He said, “Our beloved governor has ensured massive infrastructural development, maintenance of secure environment for businesses, inclusive economic development and most importantly in the education sector, where Enugu in 2021 came first in the WAEC exam of that year in the entire country. This is due to extensive investment in that sector. “These achievements and this sustenance of peace and security, they are not one we can afford to take for granted. The value and the significant can never be lost on us which is why we have gathered here to ensure that we renew the mandate of our great party. “However, mindful of the parlous state of global and national economy and mindful of the sustenance and consolidation of this great achievement, we have taken a bold view of what Enugu state must achieve in the next four to eight years. Our vision is to grow the economy of Enugu state and make it one of the top three states in this country. “We will ensure that the dividend of democracy which the government of Ugwuanyi has essentially become the bylines for the government of Ugwuanyi, we will ensure that we will continue and build on those dividends.” Noting that Enugu state had remained the hope of the PDP since the beginning of the fourth republic, as she had carried the banner of the party with great pride, he said the development would be built and taken to a monumental dimension and urged the people to speak in one resounding voice in the coming election. Gov. Ugwuanyi in his remarks said “It has pleased the Almighty God that since 1999 Ndi Enugu have been voting for PDP. In 2003, in 2007, in 2011, in 2015, in 2019, Enugu voted for PDP, in 2023 by the special grace of God and with your support it will be the same.” The Governor thanked the people of the state for their continued support adding, “May I also thank you because I know and I believe in 2023, we will finish strong, we will finish well and it will end in praise. He urged them to vote massively for Peter Mbah and all the candidates of the PDP in the state. The three visiting Governors in their separate speeches commended their colleague governor, Ugwuanyi for the good work he was doing in the state and urged the people to continue to support him by ensuring that PDP candidates in the state won their elections. Makinde asked them to go to their wards and polling units where elections were won and work hard there to give their candidates victory. Ortom on his part said, “We’ve heard, we’ve seen and we are going with the impression and believe that Enugu is PDP from the gubernatorial, from the senatorial to the House of Reps to the House of Assembly. This election is very critical. May I declare as the Ochiora that PDP will win in Enugu state.” The leader of the G-5, Wike said, “Our coming here today is to tell you we are solidly behind Ùgwùanyi. Ugwuanyi is a reliable and dependable person. Ugwuanyi is somebody you can go to war with and your two eyes will be closed. Ugwuanyi is somebody when he said yes, his yes is yes, and no wonder the entire people of Enugu have shown it today by coming to say my brothers Ugwuanyi is our own and since Ugwuanyi is our own, Mbah is our own. “Now that is obvious that Mba has won, the senatorial candidate led by Ugwuanyi they’ve all won. As we are happy, it is peppering them.”