The governorship candidate of Labour Party (LP) in Abia State, Dr. Alex Otti, says the party has a comprehensive plan to rebuild the economy of Abia and create wealth for its residents. Otti told the traditional rulers in Bende Local Government Area, led by HRH Eze Uwakwe O. Ukaegbu, Ofufe II of Amaofufe Autonomous Community, Igbere and Chairman, Traditional Rulers Council in Bende, on Thursday, that the 2023 governorship election in the state is the last opportunity for elders and leaders to rally together and deliver Abia from total collapse. He described the present condition in Abia State as one of existential threat, saying that it is only a candidate with a sound knowledge of economics that can lead the state out of its current predicament as the problem confronting her is essentially economic. “We have a comprehensive programme on how to rebuild the economy of Abia State and create wealth for our people. I have articulated it in my manifesto. I wrote the manifesto, a 42-page document, myself. It’s not the work of a paid consultant. You can download it from www.alexotti.com, my website. “This election is the last opportunity we as elders and leaders of our people have to rescue our state from the hands of those who have held her down for the past 23 years. The last time our state experienced meaningful developments were the days of Dr. M. I. Okpara and Dr. Sam Mbakwe, former Premier of Eastern Nigeria and Governor of old Imo State, respectively. “If we don’t do it in this 2023, posterity will not forgive us and we’ll have ourselves to blame,” Otti told the monarchs who listened with rapt attention. Speaking at another campaign event on Friday at Uzuakoli, Bende Local Government Area, in continuation of his campaign tour of local governments in the state, for the March 11, 2023 governorship election, Otti promised to restore the financial autonomy of local governments in the state, when he assumes office in May.  Otti said this is part of his plan to devolve power to the third arm of the federation as governor of Abia State and bring governance closer to the people as well as accelerate development in the grassroots. “Local government money belongs to the local governments. First, is for us to get good leadership at the local government level. You know, when we get into office, those that will still be in charge are the already elected local government chairmen and their councillors. But due to the way and manner the current state government conducted the election that brought in the local government leaders, we will not release the monies to the LGAs,” Otti said.