From Scholastica Onyeka, Makurdi The Catholic Media Professionals Association of Nigeria, (CAMPAN), Makurdi Diocese, has elected new executives with Jeremiah Jime of Radio Nigeria, Harvest FM, as the chairman. Jime was elected alongside nine other executive members to man the affairs of the association for a period of four years. Other members who emerged during the election include Hembadoon Orsar of Leadership Newspaper as the Vice Chairman, Hir Scholastica Onyeka of the Sun Newspaper as Secretary General, Emmanuel Alagh from the Catholic Star as the Assistant Secretary and Anne Echor of NTA as Treasurer. Others include Joseph Kiva, (MC Develop), as the Organizing Secretary, Brenda Agba as the Financial Secretary, Joyce Abua as Auditor, Emmanuel Akula as the Public Relations Officer, (PRO) while the immediate past Chairman and Secretary, Josephine Nyiakula and Doom Ikerave as the Ex officio member 1 and 2 respectively. Speaking on behalf of the EXCO, the new Chairman, Jeremiah Jime, described his emergence as a privilege and promised that, as brothers and sisters, he will work together with all members to achieve the objectives of the association While calling for membership drive, the new chairman said his exco will go from media house to media house to encourage participation since can not work alone. He also appreciated the immediate past executives led by Josephine Nyiakula for their efforts saying she  encouraged him to become an active member of the Association He pledged to do his best and solicited for help of members to enable him have a smooth and successful tenure. He also appreciated the Chaplain who is also the Director of Communication, Catholic Diocese of Makurdi, Rev. Fr Moses Iorapuu, for his guidance and pledged not to bring the association in disrepute. The immediate past Chairman, Josephine Nyiakula also thanked God and members for their support during her tenure and wished the incoming a successful tenure. The Director of Communication, Makurdi Diocese, Rev. Fr. Moses Iorapuu while commending the immediate past exco for their efforts, congratulated the new ones and prayed God to give them the wisdom and grace to carry all members along in moving the association to an enviable height.