From Isaac Anumihe, Abuja President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba, yesterday, engaged in fisticuffs with the chairman of NLC/TUC Good Homes Scheme, Chief Emeka Anuna, threatening to sack his wife from  the International Labour Organisation (ILO), now known as International Trade Union Congress (ITUC). Anuna and a handful of federal civil servants had protested in front of the NLC headquarters in Abuja over their N1 billion investment  in a housing scheme at Apo Mechanic Village in Abuja. According to Anuna, the civil servants had met all the requirements for the land but the Federal Government in conjunction with the NLC and an estate agent, known as Good Homes, refused to give them the houses. The chairman of NLC/TUC Good Homes told Daily Sun that some of the civil servants borrowed money from the banks and co-operative societies in their offices since 2012 to pay for the houses. He said that 10 years after the payment, they neither got  the houses nor their money. While some had died without getting their houses, others had retired or posted out of Abuja without getting their houses. This, he said, was against the promise that they would get keys to their houses six months after a 10 per cent payment. “We were meant to key into a housing scheme at Apo Tafia (mechanic village) which is powered by the Federal Government and given to NLC and TUC. Most of our  members have met all the financial requirements. The delivery period was for six months. This is 10 years and nothing has happened. “Some people paid the full financial obligations. Some paid N46 million. Some, N12 million, some paid  N12. 4 million for three-bedroom house. Some paid 10 per cent of the total sum. The agreement was that if you pay 10 per cent,  in six months you’ll get your keys. It was a virgin land and all interested civil servants bought into it” he said The workers had earlier protested at the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) minister’s house between 8 am and 9 am before going to the NLC’s headquarters between 10 am and 11am. After staging their protest, the NLC president ran after them, held the workers’ chairman by the jugular and hotly engaged him in a fight. He later instructed his securitymen to bundle the chairman to his office but the other  workers with him stoutly  resisted the securitymen. While Ayuba Wabba and Anuna  engaged  in hot altercation the thugs on the side of the NLC were busy snatching and smashing  journalists’ cameras and phones which the journalists used to record the event.