From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan Five governors on the platform of the Peoples Democratic (PDP), known as G-5 Governors, or Integrity Group, yesterday, kept silence on their preferred presidential candidate for the 2023 general elections.  The five governors comprising Nyesom Wike (Rivers), Samuel Ortom (Benue), Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu) and Seyi Makinde (Oyo), however, said they remain committed members of PDP. They implored Nigerians to vote for all the party’s  governorship, senatorial, House of Representatives and Houses of Assembly candidates in February and March elections. The governors were all in Ibadan, yesterday, for the official flag off of the re-election campaign of Governor Seyi Makinde, held at the Mapo Hall Arcade, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. Having rejected all entreaties to support the PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, guests at the event had expected the governors to end the long wait by unveiling their preferred presidential candidate as promised by Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike. But in their speeches, yesterday, none of the governors spoke about who they would support between Peter Obi of Labour Party and Bola Tinubu of All Progressives Congress (APC). Wike, who described Makinde as a dependable young man enjoined Nigerians to vote for all governorship, senatorial, House of Representatives and Houses of Assembly candidates of PDP. He added that for the presidential election, the Oyo State people will hear from Governor Makinde. “During this year’s general elections, vote for Seyi (Makinde), vote for the senators, vote for the House of Representatives, and vote for House of Assembly. But the other one, Seyi will talk to you,” he said thrice, referring to who to support in the presidential election. Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, who was introduced by Makinde as leader of the G-5 Governors, solicited support of the people of Oyo State for the re-election bid of Makinde. He said   the G-5 Governors were committed members of PDP in their various states, but battling a  common challenge with the national leadership of the party for failing to  resolve problems that arose after the convention. “All our candidates are going to win the governorship, Senate, House of Representatives, and House of Assembly. We are going to deliver to PDP,” he said. Abia and Enugu governors,Okezie Ikpeazu and  Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi tasked the people to vote for Makinde based on his achievements. Makinde, in his address, thanked his G-5 colleagues, the PDP members in Oyo State, and people of the state for giving him their mandate in 2019. He reeled out his achievements and asked the people to support his re-election bid. “Under Omituntun 1.0 (referring to his first term in office), I promised a government that would put people of Oyo State first. And our decisions have always taken the people of Oyo State first. Now, it is time to upgrade. It is time for Omituntun 2.0,” he said. Absent at the event were the party’s chairman, Iyorchia Ayu, presidential candidate, Atiku, and  Governor Ademola Adeleke of Osun State, and governorship candidates of the party in Ogun and Lagos states.