From Gyang Bere, Jos Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong has tasks security agents to protect the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)  to enable it to conduct free, fair,and peaceful Elections. He also called on the citizens to support the INEC,and security agencies to enable them live up to expectations during the election. The Governor described 2023 as a year of great expectations and urged citizens to ask God for enablement to discover and fulfill the purpose of their existence. Lalong disclosed this on Sunday during a New year broadcast and admonished citizens to to ensure that every day of 2023 count in service to God and humanity in love with collective effort to build Plateau and Nigeria. “While we look back at the challenges we have worked through, we certainly have many reasons to thank God for the progress we achieved in these years. “We did not only ensure stability of the State in terms of peace, security and harmony, but substantially reversed the negative perception of our State as a place to be avoided.” Lalong said 2023 is a year of election where citizens would freely elect their leaders and urged the people to participate actively in the electoral process. “This is an opportunity for every eligible citizen to exercise his or her constitutional rights of freely deciding those to lead them. “We all have the duty to ensure that we fully participate in the process and conduct ourselves peacefully to ensure that we have a smooth transition. “My administration has provided a level playing field for all political parties and candidates to freely canvass for votes by holding rallies, meetings and other engagements without hindrance. “I therefore, appeal to those who have registered but yet to collect their PVCs to ensure they collect them immediately before the window closes. “Already the collection is moving to the ward level and INEC is calling on all citizens to avail themselves of the opportunity. “While we do that, let us renew our resolve to support the electoral umpire and security agencies by ensuring that we shun violence, hate speech and incitement using religion, ethnicity and other negative ideas.” he stated.