The Lagos State Police Command has warned politicians and thugs against engaging in violence during and after the upcoming general elections. The Commissioner of Police, CP Alabi Abiodun, who gave the warning during a stakeholders meeting on Election security, at Police Officers Wives (POWA) Hall, Ikeja, said it was important they have this meeting so as to rub minds on issues that would affect political parties in the state. Alabi warned political thugs, cultists, and other troublemakers to steer clear of pooling booths or be ready to face the full weight of the law. “I want to advise political leaders here to go back home, and warn their supporters that the police are fully ready to deal with anyone caught fomenting trouble in the state,” the commissioner stated. “I also want to warn that anybody who has no business at the pooling unit should remain indoors, or risk the wrath of the police. I equally want to warn politicians to play by the rules of the game, as anybody caught doing the contrary, no matter how highly placed, will be visited by the law. Parents should equally warn their children to be law-abiding, because we won’t listen to anybody when we arrest any troublemakers. I repeat, warn your children to stay away from troubles all through the electoral processes, because we won’t listen to anyone when we pick troublemakers. “Go back to tell your men and advice them to play the game according to the rules, because we are not going to spare anybody when troublemakers are caught. In the area of cultists, that is what we are battling in Lagos, we want to assure you that no cultists or political thugs would be allowed in the state. We are going to ensure that no political party supporters will be intimidated in the state. I am impressed with the way the political parties conducted themselves here, I also want you to do so during and after the elections. We are not going to allow anyone to compromise at the pooling until. “Whoever wants to apply for police protection should do so. We want to encourage a level playing ground for all political parties, and those whose banners were damaged or removed should report to us at the police command. “Any policeman who is supporting a political party to have the upper hand on other parties would not be allowed to go scot-free. I want you to see the police as your own, give us information, and cooperate to work with you. We would also discourage brutality and we would continue to work with you and guarantee your security. “Anywhere you notice miscreants harassing your supporters, please put it to our noticed, we have flash points we are focusing on especially Lagos Island, Ikorodu, Mushin, and other areas in the state.” The Lagos State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Mr Olusegun Agbaje, who is represented by the Administrative Secretary, Mr Adebisi Oladapo, said INEC was very ready for the election but pleaded that politicians should play the game according to the rules of the election. “Everything is ready, the BVAS is also ready, we used it in Ekiti and Osun, and it worked; it will work in Lagos, and other parts of the country. We will not disappoint Nigerians during the election”. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Other security agencies that participated in the meeting include; NSCDC, FRSC, Immigration, Correctional Service, Army, DSS and other para-military agencies in the state.