The year 2022 was a fruitful year for some celebrities in terms of child bearing. Quite a number of entertainers were blessed with babies of their own. Harrysong Harrysong welcomed his second daughter with his wife on Wednesday, December 21, just a few days to Christmas. The excited father announced this on his Instagram page, as he shared a picture of him locking fingers with the newborn. He revealed that his daughter was born on Wednesday at 3am, adding that her name was Purity. Ruth Kadiri On Thursday, July 21, Ruth Kadiri, announced the birth of her second child, Emerald-Chizaram-Ezerika. The happy mother took to her Instagram page to share the good news. Regina Daniels Actress and film producer, Regina Daniels, welcomed the birth of her second son with her billionaire husband, Prince Ned Nwoko, in Amman, Jordan on June 29, 2022. Ivie Okujaye Egboh Ivie Okujaye took to her Instagram page on June 8 to announce the arrival of her new bundle of joy. She described the child as a “miracle baby”. Stephanie Okereke-Linus The Imo State-born screen diva and her husband, Linus Idahosa, welcomed their second son together on May 31, 2022. This came seven years after the couple gave birth to their first son, Maxwell. Bimbo Afolayan Bimbo Afolayan announced the birth of her second child on June 4, 2022. The actress, who got married to a popular filmmaker, Okiki Afolayan, took to Instagram to announce the birth of the child, who was delivered in far away Houston, United States. Bukky Adekogbe Raji (Aminatu Papapa) Aminatu Papapa welcomed a child in 2022. The actress and her husband, Lukmon Raji, who is also an actor, welcomed their bundle of joy, Prince Abidemi Raji in June. Omashola Ex-BBNaija housemate, Omashola, welcomed a baby boy with his fiancée on Monday January 10, 2022. Woli Arole Comedian Woli Arole and his wife welcomed a baby boy on Sunday, January 2, 2022. He broke the news on his Instagram page thus: “there are some testimonies you can’t share wearing clothes”. Williams Uchemba Williams Uchemba became a father in February 2022 after he and his wife welcomed their first baby girl. Nosa Rex Popular actor, Nosa Rex, welcomed a baby boy in March 2022. The baby is an addition to his two other kids, a boy and a girl. AY Makun Comedian Ayo Makun, aka AY, welcomed a new baby into his family in January. The female child came after 13 years of waiting, after the birth of their first child. Kie Kie In November, popular skit maker, Bukunmi Adeaga-Ilori also known as Kie Kie, announced the birth of a baby girl with her husband. She made the announcement on her Instagram page with a video of popular children show, Cocomelon. Lasisi Elenu Comedian Lasisi Elenu and his partner, Nonso Adika, welcomed their first child, Rain Olanma Oluwanifemi Afolabi, in October. The recently engaged couple confirmed the birth of their new child in a post shared by Lasisi himself. Jane Mena Jane Mena and Andre Plies, her husband, welcomed their first child together in November. The dancer and entertainer announced the birth of the baby via an Instagram post. Korra Obidi Popular Nigerian dancer, Korra Obidi, is another celebrity who welcomed a baby in 2022 with her now estranged husband, Justin Dean. The birth of Korra’s baby girl in March went viral on social media.