From Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri Rector of the Federal Polytechnic, Nekede, Owerri, Imo State, Michael Arimanwa, has read out his administration’s achievements in the last four years, which included infrastructural and human developments. Arimanwa, who presented his scorecard at a thanksgiving service for the 2022 end-of-year solemn assembly held at the institution’s 1,000-capacity hall officiated by Brother Ahanonu Osondu, Pastor Kanu Ngozi, Brother Leonard Okonkwo, Ikwu Grace, and Rev. Gideon Nnawuihe, thanked God for his guidance. Most of his achievements in the past four years of his administration, he listed as “the development of a directorate for linkages and Intervention”. He said, “ We have been able to establish links with 14 different organizations. We are connected to ICAN, you are aware that we have an understanding, very soon our graduates will start enjoying the waver of 10 courses, and they will only write 5 courses to become chartered accountants. “We are also connected to the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Nigeria (CIBN) because by the CIBN rating, we are the best linkage institution in the South East and because of that, they bequeathed to us a 160-capacity auditorium for the use of the school.” “We also received this year an award for Banking and Finance Education as the best institution from South East as far as Banking and Finance are concerned. We also have a relationship with Dispensing Opticianry Registration Board of Nigeria and that arrangement is to eliminate quackery, few days ago, some of our students graduated. “We are also connected to Lofty Fans in Togo and that contact has given us the first-ever Tilapia fingering in both South East and South-South Nigeria. We are connected to the Sir Emeka Ofor foundation, and those links have given us books and journals, which are in our Library. “We are connected to Zinux Technologies, Zinux subsidized the purchase of laptops for our staff and also provided training for our graduates to position them for the world of work.” “We are connected to National Board for Technological Innovation (NBTI) and they established an innovation center in our institution. We are connected to Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing Company where 33 of our students from Mechatronics Engineering were trained by Innoson Manufacturing Company and they should be coming back any moment from now, the training is free.” For Research and Innovation Development, the rector revealed that “We have been able to access N400million from TETFund to carry out research at the various levels in our institutions, it’s from there we developed electric cars, gas fire crucible burners, rice destoning machines, coconut dishusting machines, canal cracking, and separation machine, palm fruit digesting machine, press-up machine, cassava grading machine, surveillance aircraft that can be programmed to send messages to security authorities about a development.” Arimanwa said his administration built the School of Engineering office complex, School of Agricultural and Bioenvironmental Engineering office complex, School of Engineering Technology classroom complex, SBMT classroom complex, SEDT office complex, SEDT classroom complex, and Building Technology workshop. According to him, in ICT development, the institution laid optic cable around the campus, initiated the smart campus programme, among the first six polytechnics in ICT development, and provided internet on campus, adding, “our ICT has grown up to the point where we are now running paperless meetings everything is online.” He continued: “We are in advanced stage of getting additional campuses for Federal Polytechnic Nekede. Before the end of January, we are hopeful that we would sign MoU with the company that will come to establish an alternative power supply, we have reached advanced st