Chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Abdulrasheed Bawa, has confirmed participation at the 6th Daily Asset annual awards, which holds January 19. The anti-corruption czar was voted by the Editorial Board of the Abuja-based daily as the newspaper’s ‘Man of the Year 2022’. Other award recipients who have equally confirmed participation include Chairman, Senate Committee on Power and former governor of Benue State, Gabriel Suswam; President, Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN), Ali Rabiu, and Executive Secretary, Nigerian Shippers Council, Emmanuel Jime. While Suswam was voted by the editors as winner of the Political Leadership Distinction Award, Jime, a seasoned administrator and former member of House of Representatives will be honoured as Best Regulator of the Year respectively along side Rabiu, a frontline technocrat and leading light in the nation’s Engineering profession. Director General,  Federal Capital Territory Emergency Agency, Abbas Idriss, has also confirmed his attendance at the grand event where he will be honoured as ‘Public Servant of the Year’.  Chairman, Hydro Electric Power Producing Areas Development Commission and former member, House of Representatives, Terfa Tyav, has similarly accepted his nomination as Public Servant of the Year and will grace the event  just like Yau, the  internationally-acclaimed Nuclear Physicist and director general, Nigeria Nuclear Regulatory Authority, who will receive award as chief executive officer of the year alongside a veteran broadcaster of international repute and Director General, National Broadcasting Commission, Balarabe Shehu Illelah. A member of House of Representatives and Chairman, House Committee on Judiciary, Luke Onofiok, will  be honoured at the event as ‘Legislator of the Year’. Nigeria’s former High Commissioner to Canada and a former Ambassador to Mexico, Iyorwuese Hagher, was voted as winner in the ‘Life Time Achievement’ category of the awards. Hagher, who featured in the first edition of the annual event guest speaker has been a great supporter of the Daily Asset awards series. Publisher/Editor-in-Chief of Daily Asset, Cletus Akwaya, in a statement, said the Vice Chancellor of Benue State University, Joe Tor Iorapuu, will be honoured as Vice ‘Chancellor of the Year’ while his counterpart at Federal University of Petroleum Resources Effurun, Akpofure Rim-Rukeh, will be guest speaker. Rim-Rukeh, a former award recipient will speak on the theme of this year’s celebration: Funding Options for Tertiary Education in Nigeria. A Note for Policy Makers’. Frontline businessman and leading transporter, Terna Hemba Nezan, the chief executive officer of NEZAN Transport Limited emerged as ‘Businessman of the Year’ has also confirmed participation at the ceremony. The statement said top government functionaries, members of the diplomatic corps, captains of industry, traditional rulers and members of the National Assembly, as well professionals of different sheds have been specially invited to attend the occasion. Akwaya, a former commissioner of Information in Benue State, according to the statement, explained that the awards was an annual programme to honour those who have excelled in their various endeavours or careers. “The management of Asset Newspapers intends to recognise and honour those who have excelled in their chosen life endeavours. It is proper to create role models for the youths of this country and encourage excellence and promote integrity in service. This is the philosophy behind the awards,” the statement quoted the publisher to have said.