“Prof, God has done it again for me and my family. The native doctor that gave us spiritual quit notice that led to the death of my only son last year is now in total trouble. When I got the oil you sent to me and followed the instructions, four days thereafter the juju doctor called me and said that all his powers have left him and that he is afraid of death. He requested for prayer and the oil too. He has confessed and has accepted Christ as his Lord and personal Saviour. We are living in peace in our house now and all those attacks have stopped. My wife and I are now enjoying peace. May God bless you.” – Mr. David Agu, dvagu@yahoo.co.uk “God bless you our most revered man of God. My own case was that of marriage. I am a beautiful girl and people kept coming, asking for my hand in marriage. But anyone that comes will not lastl this ugly experience continued to a point that it became a common slogan in my town. I had more than 15 disappointments in life with regard to marriage…my pastors kept praying and some prophets attributed it to what they called “Spiritual Husband.” I did undergo all kinds of prayers and deliverance, yet the problem persisted. I spent all my earnings on seed sowing and seeking spiritual assistance. The one that made me almost mad was the case of my suitor who brought the first drink according to our custom and tradition to my parents and consequently agreed on when to come back for the fulfillment of other marriage rites. He attends the same church with me and as a result I trusted that it was not going to fail. All of a sudden, the brother stopped picking my calls. After some time, he stopped coming to fellowship and in fact worked his transfer out of the state. It became a problem and before we could locate him he had married another person and she became pregnant for him. It was at that point that I started searching for your contact, having spoken to you before. When I re-contacted you, it was like a miracle you picked up and listened to me. After all said and done, you asked me to do what you instructed me initially. By the grace of God, I ordered three different kinds of your oil and you gave me the instruction on what to do. To God be the glory, at the end of the prayer, two persons came and became serious but when I submitted their names to you, the Holy Spirit spoke through you and made a choice for me; today we are married and I am expecting my first baby. God bless you richly for being a vessel unto honour.” – Mrs. Joy E.O., wshirley606@gmail.com    “God is great my dear Professor Uzorma. I got your oil last year November for my wife who confessed to be a serious witch behind my failure, and inability to impregnate her due to low sperm count. We have been married for 15 years without any child. She confessed after using your first oil and we re-ordered the second one for God to give us the blessing of the womb. My brother, it was a serious battle between me, my wife and the evil forces…The low sperm count manifested in me mysteriously. We prayed and fasted together and the evil ones came, when she became pregnant and in January this year it was like heaven was going to fall down to the earth. The instruction and prayers you gave to us sustained us till the day she put to bed to a baby boy. Sir, since that day she delivered of a baby boy, we have known peace and my wife is free from any form of evil attack. May the good Lord bless you for us. (Names and contact withheld). “Dear Prof, I thought it was mere fiction reading the testimonies in your column; I hesitated ordering your oil though not knowing what will be the result. I have visited all prayer houses and Pentecostal churches but my situation remained unchanged. When I finally ordered your oil in August last year, few days after that, I received a call from a man that had seized my products, calling and interacting with me, something he never did since 2012. This call changed the situation in my already crumbled condition. I have been busy since then and God has shown me mercy through you. My dead business is awakened; I am able to feed my household again, a house nearly completed and abandoned since 2010, I will sleep in it this Easter season…Prof sir, thank you and remain blessed for us all” – Chief Sam U.A. Initiation into occultism can begin from that state. Therefore, guard yourself and avoid reading books on Occult Dreams, Astrology, and Metaphysics, Noetic Sciences, Palmistry, demonic Graphology, Extrasensory perception (ESP), Magic, The Book of Mencius, Six and Seven books of Moses., Lotus Sutra, 1Ching, just to mention but a few. These books and many others are specific channels through which one can be contaminated by the powers of darkness. Paul concludes “Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit, after the tradition of men, after the rudiment of the world, and not after Christ” (Col 2:8). Another way by which people could be possessed by higher demonic spirit is through the use of demonic palm kernel oil. Demonic palm kernel oil is another channel through which one can be contaminated by the powers of darkness. Some mothers use demonic palm kernel oil given to them in a prayer house on their children. This immediately contaminates the child. It may be that you may have been given this kind of oil by an agent of darkness, something mixed with this oil to either rub or use in one way or the other, and you may receive your heart’s desire but be informed that this kind of kernel oil is used to introduce certain elements of darkness in your body.       Whether you rub or drink it, it is used to form a contact point for evil spirits within to dominate you. The moment this is done, the very agent who gave it to you will be crowned in the spiritual realm for ‘converting’ or contaminating a soul. Therefore, I urge you to watch after your soul because the devil is after it by all means. Many of these agents of darkness are using candles and incense for spiritual assignments. Has any evil worker masquerading as minister of God given you candles or incense or any other thing contrary to the will of God for prayers? Then know it that such one is an agent of darkness projected to dominate mankind through evil means. You may receive a solution from him but know that any prayer conducted for you with the use of either candles or incense is an indirect process of contaminating you and initiating you into the realm of blind witches where you can be enslaved and sacrificed at anytime. Whenever any prayer is made for you by an evil agent of darkness, with the use of candles and incense it means that you have sold yourself to spirits in the fire occult kingdom and in most cases during initiations in which one is instructed to dance round the fire naked, the person becomes doomed. That is, fire sacrifices known in the Sanskrit parlance as Agni Yajna those who are easily used for this sacrifice are those who have via wrong solution contaminated themselves through the use of both candles and incense. This results to untimely death. Bathing in the river is a means of receiving solution to one’s problem and it is another way in which one is kept under the contact point of the devil and his forces. You may have at one time or the other in your life visited a ‘prophet’ for the solution to your problem and the said prophet finally takes you to a river to bath you. Though, this is usually done for people especially women looking for the fruits of the womb or for other persons looking for security and other life related problems. There is a man in Anambra State, Nigeria, who does this often on people as a way of ministering solutions to their needs. I wish to tell you that your bathing in the river for this purpose is an indirect way of presenting you as a condemned human being and as ‘meat’ to the forces of darkness within the water spirit realm.