From Abel Leonard, Lafia The Director General Atiku/Okowa, Ombugadu/Ohinoyi Labaran Maku has charged electorates in Nigeria to protect their votes, seek for good governance in the forth coming general election in 2023. Labaran Maku who was a former minister of information made the disclosure during the campaign rally in karu Local government area of the state saying it is time for the people to take over power from corrupt politicians towards developing the country. Maku also charges the people of Karu to vote PDP as it is a home of PDP while alleging that the present government has taking over their lands in the name of development which is not the PDP if voted into power will not do. “They seize your lands to build their private business centres. We are assuring you that when PDP is elected we will reverse this practice. Everyone in Karu will have a sense of belonging. We will transform Karu.” “I call on you to guard your PVCs don’t surrender your cards to anybody for any reason. Vote all PDP candidates.pdp is the only party that is sensitive to the needs of the people. You deserve the best the poverty in Nasarawa State has continued to rise” He further said the candidate of the party, David Ombugadu will bring you succour, adding that the people should Insist on your ideals of seeking for good governance. ” I know Karu people are united and strong people.We will transform Karu as London of Nasarawa State to increase revenue generation and the economy of the state will improve. Karu people stand up for rights.” he added. “Ensure you come out en mass and vote Atiku Abubakar. It will be of no importance to us if you vote only our Governorship Candidate with the the president. Vote all PDP candidates.” Also speaking, Chairman of the campaign council, former BOT chairman of the PDP Walid Jibril also extols People of Karu noting that they people with rich history, strong and know how to do the right. He called on them to keep the faith in PDP strong, “we will not fail you. we are one, don’t allow anyone to deceive you using religion. that’s why we decided to nominate a Christian and moslem as our presidential candidate and running mate.” He said the PDP a party that embraces everybody regardless of their beliefs and inclinations adding that the party will restore dignity in humanity stressing that the presidential and Governorship Candidates of the PDP are ready with their rich programme aimed at fast tracking development. Appreciating the over 5 thousand supporters, David Ombugadu boost of being the only candidate with a clear vision of what Nasarawa state will look like if elected in the next four years. He said he would deploy professionals to transform karu local government area because karu is the center of development considering it’s proximity to Abuja. He said in his first one hundred days in office, karu will be the first point of attraction as he would award 100 kilometers internal road project to curb hold up and beautify the towns in karu. Ombugadu further informed the people to avoid being deceived by the APC who he said had lost focus in governance in the quest to seeking for second term. “Money can’t buy the people, the governor had money but the people are with us and it is the people that will vote, we will match their fight and anything they would bring on because they cant kill all of us.” he said.