By Steve Agbota A train enroute the Warri-Itakpe  has reportedly derailed, leaving over 300 passengers stranded in a Kogi forest amid public fears for their safety and security. It was learnt that following the incident, the passengers quickly abandoned the train for fear of being kidnapped. The train that derailed yesterday, it was learnt, was the same attacked at a station in Igueben, Edo State on January 7 leading to the abduction of 20 passengers. Sources in the train said: “The incident happened inside Kogi forest, over 300 passengers were said to have abandoned the train for fear of being kidnapped, as no other coach was sent to rescue them after an hour the incident happened.” The sources said the train left Warri early Sunday, but derailed at about 12noon inside a thick forest between Ajaokuta and Itakpe. “Till after 1pm there was no help from anywhere,” the source said. However, in a statement by Coordinator Warri Itakpe Train Service, Sanni Abdulganiyu, which confirmed the incident, said all passengers and crew were safely evacuated. “The Warri Itakpe Train Service WITS 01 derailed at km 30 Ajaokuta-Itakpe section of the track at About  12:30hrs on Sunday, January 22, 2023.  “Thankfully, there was no fatality and no casualty. We were immediately alerted and security personnel comprising the; Army, Police, NSCDC, and the community vigilante were immediately drafted to the accident point with the assistance of the Local government Chairman.  “All the 148 passengers and 30 crew members were evacuated to a safe place and arrangements were made to convey 148 passengers to their various destinations and they have been successfully conveyed. “The cause of the derailment is not yet determined. Due to this incident, the service along the corridor has been suspended. Further details would be communicated to members of the public. Repair and operation will resume as soon as possible,” he said.  Also, a staff of the Nigerian Railway Corporation at the Itakpe Station, who spoke on the condition of anonymity said the incident took place at about 20km from the destination of the train. He hinted that some of the NRC workers got vehicles that evacuated the passengers safely from the forest where the incident took place.