By Zika Bobby The Founder of Galilee Christian Centre, Lagos,  Prophet Williams Onuoha said next month’s general election will produce an Igbo president, with the runner up going to court to contest the victory. In this interview, Onuoha called on those in authority to, as a matter of urgency, release the incarcerated leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Mazi Nnamdi Kanu from detention, saying that his continued detention will spell doom for the entire country. He spoke on moral decadence amongst our youths, failure of the Church, Biafra and other national issues. Prophesy on 2023 election From what the lord has revealed to me, Nigeria is almost gone. In 2014 I said a lot about this nation where I mentioned that the lord is not happy with Nigeria. I said the present president, Muhammadu Buhari will defeat Goodluck Jonathan and take over power, and that Buhari’s emergence as president will drag us backwards. I also said his emergence will be for the good of the Igbo, which  many thought it will be by way of giving Igbo political appointments and jobs. I laughed. In Deuteronomy 29:29, it is written: “The secret things of this world belongs to God. And Amos 3:7 says God can never do anything without revealing it to His servants. God revealed to me that He is going to be wicked to the Igbo. And as long as He is wicked to the Igbo, the nation will know no peace, and that this will affect the economy. You cannot rule a country with wickedness. A true leader must fall in love with his people and the people must fall in love with their leader. But that is not the case with the Buhari administration. Buhari came for a purpose and that is to destroy this nation. Why is this so, you may ask. Because Nigeria remains an instrument, a stooge in the hands of the colonial masters. A country that claims to be one nation, but it’s people are being killed everyday. The interest of these colonial masters is for Nigeria to remain one. They know that as a nation, we can never grow. They know that if we grow, they loose grip. You can see that things have fallen apart. The emergency of Peter Obi as a candidate in this election is to give respite to the people. It is divine. In my 2015 prophesy, I said that if Nigeria does not allow an Igbo man to become president, there is going to be serious agitation. That is what we are seeing today. The people are agitated. We are now in a country where terrible things happen everyday and no one is asking questions. The powers that be don’t want  Igbo to rule because there was an agreement reached after the Biafra war that Igbo will never be president. But because God is Master of the universe and a faithful God, he allowed all this to happen and for a reason. In 2012 prophesy, God said PDP is cursed and that APC will take over and have a short reign because it has no plan for the Igbo man and that the people should expect a new movement. A movement that will change the present narrative. Today, that prophesy has been fulfilled with Obi’s emergence. He keeps growing from strength to strength. This is because God is with him. The Obi phenomenon is no longer an Igbo agenda but Nigeria, Africa and the entire black race. Today Nnamdi Kanu is languishing in prison just because he opposed the marginalisation of his people. You cannot go to the east and see a single road built by the government. The east region has become a place where every three minutes drive you find security check points, as if we are in a war situation. Extortions at these points have become the order of the day. You cannot board foreign flight from any of the eastern states without getting to Lagos. This is how bad the situation is for that region, and yet you want the people to remain quiet. This is a clear sign that the government never had plans for the Igbo man. Our roads are now death traps. Nowhere is safe in the whole of south east. By trying to put the Igbo down, you are indirectly bringing the country to it’s knees. But today, the lord said Obi has come to stay and that He brought him for a reason. The lord said he is going to defeat the two other major candidates and that one will eventually head to court but will remain defeated. I am not interested in whoever becomes the president. I am a preacher not a politician. Like a messenger, I have only come to deliver the lord’s message. If he (Obi) eventually becomes president, those actually ruling this country will hand him a play card. Who are these people? The colonial masters. America and Britain. They will hand him the blueprint to work with, and if he refuse, the will be treated like others who, in the past, refused. That is what has been revealed to me. As a preacher, I stand for freedom and I want my people to be free from this bondage. It’s time for Biafra Nation to stand, and I know we will eventually achieve it peacefully. The reason why the Lord said I should speak about Biafra is that it is the only thing that can liberate Africa, not just Nigeria. If Biafra stands, African stands. I use this medium to appeal to all those concerned to release Nnamdi Kanu, as a matter of urgency. This man committed no offence. I wonder how a cry for freedom has become an offence. He is only speaking the minds of his people who have long been deprived of good roads, electricity, water, security, better healthcare and so on.  The Lord has said he should be released and that nothing should happen to him. He has also called on Igbo politicians to unite and ensure that Kanu is released. Global crises. Everywhere you look at today, there is one crisis or the other. Nowhere is safe. These same colonial masters, responsible for Nigeria’s woes, are also to be blamed for what is happening in the international level. They have their hands in crisis in  middle east, Africa,  Asia, North America. Look at what they have done in Ukraine. The lord has revealed to me that Vladimir Putin will defeat them all. He is the man the lord will use to put them to shame. They spend millions of dollars arming Ukraine, and watch the people die of hunger. They have made life nasty brutish and short for countries that refused to do their bidding. They take delight in war and hate peace. The war in Ukraine is between good and evil, and at the end, good will triumph over evil. Media propaganda has become the order of the day, with fake news everywhere. They only tell you what they want you to know. But God said He will soon put them to shame. Insecurity in the east I will tell you today that according to the revelation I got from God, most of the people used to cause mayhem in the south east region of Nigeria are mercenaries and they are not Igbo. These people were contracted to bring trouble in Igbo land. Their mission is to ensure that our land knows no peace. Yes, we do have some Igbo miscreants who use the opportunity to cause trouble, but the fact still remains that the major crisis are carried out by paid mercenaries. But I have a message for them from God. If they don’t stop, the land will swallow them. You can not come to our house, a house known for peace, and begin to cause problem. Nnamdi Kanu has been an advocate of peace. All he has been telling the people was for them to embrace peace, and see themselves as brothers. And I tell you today that the only person that can truly put an end to all the nonsense happening in that region is Nnamdi Kanu. The reason is simple. He is ordained by God. He remains the only leader, who, when he speaks the people listen. If you say you truly seek peace in Igbo land, release him immediately. Can an Obi presidency make the country better? We pray that it happens but I have my doubts. As preachers and messengers of God, all we can do is keep praying and believing that things will be better. That is the faith of everyone. We can only but pray and hope. Obi as a person is an intelligent man, an Igbo man with good intentions, not only forn Nigeria but Africa. But there is something I know about the colonial masters. I know they will come after him. They always do. They did it to former president Jonathan. When you are intelligent, they see you as a threat. They are only allowing Obi because they know that his emergence as president will definitely end the various agitations. These agitations they definitely do not want. Just like former US president Barrack Obama,  God brought Obi for a reason. Moral decadence amongst our youths. Who is to blame? We have all failed. Parents, the school, the government and the Church. Let me take it from the religious angle. As a preacher, I am disappointed in the Church of today. The church is supposed to be a place you go to hear the message of truth. But today, preachers no longer speak the truth. The church is supposed to be the mouth of God to the people and the government. We all read Jesus’ action in the temple where he chased aways money changers. We no longer have such preachers. As a preacher when you see what is good, you praise and talk about it, and when it’s bad, you talk about it by condemning it. It is no longer the case. In the books of Kings, men of God where anti-government. They were busy telling the king’s the truth whenever they go astray. They praise them when they do well. We remember the story of Elijah,  how he challenged the king for killing Naboth and collected his vineyard. Today we look the other way when evil is done. This is the genesis of our moral decadence. Today our preachers speak in codes. The reason why we are in this mess is because men of God have refused to speak out. Today, there are no jobs, no infrastructure, insecurity everywhere, with corruption gone over the roof. Our youths now look for all means to survive. As a parent, you sell your land to train your child in school and he or she eventually graduates spending eight years on a four- year course. Hit with no job, the child automatically becomes a tool in the hands of the devil. Today, so many families are relocating abroad. Jeremiah 29:4 “ For I have taken them away in captivity”. What we are witnessing is the Babylonian system. Many of our children in foreign land will never return home again. How do you expect them to leave where there are good schools, electricity, good roads, water, jobs, and so on, to return to the land of their fathers, plundered by the uncircumcised. We are gradually disappearing as Africans. We are no longer indigenous. Soon we won’t have doctors and nurses in our already dead hospitals, no teachers, no pilots. Professionals are leaving in droves. The more people leave, the more we lose our identity as indigenous people. Soon they will stop answering our indigenous names. That is why some of us are crying because we have seen where it’s going. And what  we see is not good. We have to collectively wake up if we want Africa to be great again. The solution is not to run away but to stand and collectively change this nation for the better. Pastors should begin to speak message of truth to the people. Not just that Jesus died on the cross. That is no longer the message. Children no longer have respect for parents. One of the greatest commandment is ‘respect you father and mother’. Let’s start from there. Proverbs 20:20, “Those that curse their parents their light will be put off ‘. In Nigeria, as soon as your father dies, and you see him in your dream, you begin to ‘cast and bind’. You are now made to believe that your dead father is now a demon. But we see how the whites attend to their dead. You see them visit the graves of their departed ones. 1Samuel 28. Pastors now preach to us that as soon as your father dies, you have no business going to the grave. This is one of the problems we have as Africans, and it’s causing serious problem to our collective existence as a people. God speaks to us through a familiar face. Someone we have respect for. We need to retrace our steps if we must get it right.