In line with its philosophy of encouraging peace in Africa, the All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA) has lent its voice to the lingering humanitarian crisis in war-torn Somalia.  The country has been encumbered with civil wars and security challenges for the past three decades, throwing its most vulnerable populations, especially women and young girls into untold hardship.  As the 8th AFRIMA tagged: ‘Teranga Edition’ holding in Dakar, Senegal on January 12-15, 2023 draws near, the award platform has partnered the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) in launching the #HopeForSomalia campaign, which includes championing policy-stimulating petitions and fostering fundraisers, to help alleviate the harsh impact of the crisis on Somalians, especially women and young girls. Commenting on the situation, AFRIMA’s Executive Producer/President, Mr Mike Dada, said: “Like the situation in Somalia, a popular narrative about Africa is that it is a war-torn habitat, without any hope for sustainable peace in sight. It’s saddening; because the danger of that narrative is that it discourages actual solutions. Somalia has enjoyed peace for years and even bears a reputation for being one of Africa’s most pro-democratic societies. We cannot watch and fold our arms, seeing innocent Somali women and children have their lives and dreams cut short by the conflict, terrorism or even climate crisis, without any form of aid or relief.  “In AFRIMA, we abide by the ethos of family. We are one Africa, and whatever burdens Somalia should burden the rest of the continent. We are committed to ensuring that we help contribute to the long-awaited peace-restoration, famine prevention and drought-rehabilitation efforts in Somalia. We thank our partners, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) for their great work in Somalia, and for calling our attention to this. It is especially shocking to see how great these women and girls are suffering, and how high the maternal mortality rate is a ripple effect of this war. We believe Africa will return to its position as a culturally progressive, innovative and peace-loving continent, once again.”  Speaking, UNFPA Representative in Somalia, Niyi Ojuolape, said that women and girls are the most hit by the crisis, urging for support to end the gory situation, and to ameliorate the impact. He disclosed, “Somalia is facing a complex and devastating crisis. The country has one of the highest maternal mortality ratios in the world. Conflict and drought-led displacements are adding to the strain on the already limited sexual and reproductive health (SRH) services and weak health system. Lack of nutrition and access to healthcare contribute to the poor health of women and girls. Pregnant and lactating women, in particular, are at risk due to the negative effects of malnutrition on pregnancy outcomes and newborn survival.  “Over 82% of those displaced are women and children, including 1.95 million women and girls of reproductive age. In the next three months, it is estimated that there will be 918 deliveries per day, with 15% of pregnant women experiencing complications. Without access to qualified birth attendants, health services and facilities, maternal and newborn mortality will increase further.” Ojuolape, however, pleaded with the international donor community to “urgently prioritise the support of quality SRH services and GBV prevention and response to help prevent deaths, diseases and disability for women and girls in Somalia.”