By Chinwendu Obienyi Amid continuous economic projections from market operators and analysts, the Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), has noted that a stable monetary policy will enhance investment opportunities in the capital market. Its Chairman, Sam Onukwue, disclosed this in a statement while identifying factors that would  drive activities in the Nigerian financial market this year. Specifically, Onukwue listed issues such as securities challenges, inflation rate, taxation of market instruments, especially, Capital Gain Tax (CGT), a disincentive to investors, government’s management of debt, funding of budget deficit, privatisation of moribund parastatals, successful removal of fuel subsidy and general stability of monetary policy amongst others will determine the investment environment this year. In his review of the market for last year, he noted that above 20 per cent gain recorded by the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) was commendable. He added that the market would have earned higher but for the incessant review of the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR), rising inflation rate and inconsistent exchange rate that characterized investment activities in the review period.  He however expressed optimism that a more stable monetary policy environment will enhance investment opportunities. “The financial market was unstable for the larger part of 2022 as some fundamental decisions were taken by the government that impacted the market. Constant movement of the MPR forced investors to look for higher interest margins. The inflation galloped in the period and people were looking for real value. Exchange rate also constituted a challenge as foreign portfolio investors abandoned the market while local investors dominated the market. On one hand, we can say local investors are developing confidence in the market but on the other, foreign investors left because they were losing money. “Global implications of Russian invasion of Ukraine disrupted economic activities. But the market didn’t do badly despite the challenges. The impending presidential election will have significant impacts in terms of investor expectations and uncertainties. However, given the good performances of many companies in the third quarter, they may perform better. We have seen a slight decline in inflation rate, for the first time in 11 years and we hope this will be sustained. According to the ASHON boss, many people are still willing to do business with Nigeria.  He said, “What they need is an investor-friendly monetary policy environment. But the incoming administration should address issues such as security,  inflation rate, debt servicing, removal of petroleum subsidy, management of exchange rate, privatization of parastatals such as NNPC and get it listed on a securities market rather than direct sale to core investors. We have seen a huge gap in this year’s budget and hope the government shall leverage the capital market to fund budget deficit.”