By Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure Facts have emerged on why Chief Sunday Akinwale was removed as the traditional head of Eko-Ajala in Ifelodun Local Government, Osun State. Akinwale had alleged he was unilaterally removed by the Elende of Ekoende, Oba Rauf Olaniyan. It was, however, gathered that Akinwale’s dethronement was based on the order of the Osun State High Court, being currently challenged at the Court of Appeal, Akure, Ondo State. Akinwale was in 2018 installed the Olunlosin of Eko-Ajala by Oba Olaniyan who holds the prescribed authority. He was removed by the court for alleged gross misconduct. It was learnt that Akinwale challenged his removal and resisted moving out of the palace until the involvement of some aggrieved members of the community together with security agents who reportedly chased him out of the palace. Oba Olaniyan supported his removal subsequent ejection from the palace. The Elende told Daily Sun that he installed Akinwale as Olunlosin of Eko-Ajala but later removed him based on the order of the court. One of the allegations against Akinwale was that he was receiving salary from two sources. Toba Olaniyan: “Some indigenes of the town informed us that Akinwale, after being installed the Olunlosin of Eko-Ajala by me was receiving salary from the Local Government Service Commission, being an official of the local government before ascending the throne. “In other words, Akinwale was receiving salary as a local government official. At the same time he was receiving salary as the traditional head of Eko-Ajala unknown to me and many residents of the town. The salaries were paid by the local government. “After investigating this allegation, we found out that it’s true. This was used against him in court and the court ordered that he should be removed from the throne. We followed the order of the court and he was removed and another person installed accordingly. “Members of Ifelodun Traditional Council comprising all the traditional rulers in Ifelodun Local Government are carried along in the process of his removal. The dethronement was in exercise of my powers as the prescribed authority for the town. “I am the one who is constitutionally empowered to appoint and install Olunlosin of Eko-Ajala because he’s a chief under me. I was the one who installed Akinwale in line with the laid down tradition and custom of the town, which is also gazetted. So, when the court found him guilty of the allegations levelled against him, I was ordered to remove him and this I did.” The Eburu of Iba also in Ifelodun Local Government, Oba Adekunle Okunoye, insisted: “Olunlosin remains a lesser chief under the Elende. Akinwale failed to follow due process and did not give due recognition to the authorities of the Elende before the court ordered his dethronement based on the facts before it. “The Elende only exercised his powers based on the order of the court. The Ifelodun Traditional Council and the state Council of Obas were in the know of Akinwale’s travails. However, the deposed monarch said he had challenged the court judgment, which ordered his dethronement. He said he had also returned the salaries he collected after his installation: “I was yet to receive staff of office and certificate of installation as at the time I was receiving salary from the local government. I have since resigned from the services of the Local Government Service Commission.”