From Noah Ebije, Kaduna The Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive, National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI), Prof. Mohammed Sani Haruna on Monday disclosed why plans to manufacture first made in Nigeria helicopter was delayed. Prof. Haruna said border closure by Chinese government due to COVID-19 outbreak affected Nigeria’s manpower training in China for proposed locally manufactured helicopter. The NASENI boss stated this while fielding questions from newsmen shortly after a courtesy call to the new Commandant of the Nigerian Airforce Institute of Technology (AFIT), AVM Paul Jemitola, for site take over of Aeronautics and Air Vehicle equipment development institute, as well as inspection of ongoing construction work at the Agency’s Automotive Supplier Industrial Park project, Kaduna. Earlier, at the courtesy call, the AFIT Commandant expressed excitement at the collaboration with NASENI and promised to maximise the benefits of the collaboration for the betterment of all stakeholders. According to Prof. Haruna, “The first made in Nigeria helicopter project, the permanent site has been shown at AFIT, the project itself has been developed here in Kaduna. So far the project is about assembling. So far we have assembled two helicopters. However, to have the first made in Nigeria helicopter with everything manufacturered locally is still ongoing. We are committed and so far we have trained adequate manpower, however we have some challenges because it was only recently that the Chinese have opened their borders as a result of COVID 19 and that has affected some of the plans that have been prepared and handed over to them to manufacture for us, all so the training of some of our experts in China has been delayed due to these challenges. By and large the president will still Commission whatever is on the ground before leaving office”. In his speech at the courtesy call, the NASENI boss informed that, “The manufacturers of such vehicles should be able to have a location at the park, and produce the spare parts here so that in the process of doing so, it will create employment, it will lead to some technology acquisition because if local manpower is being used to do the manufacturering people will learn and acquire the know-how and also be able to be gainfully employed. Most importantly we will have foreign exchange reserve without importing everything that we are consuming. There are so many vehicles in the country and every now and then their spare parts are coming into the country.And that is alot of foreign exchange. So producing them locally is necessary. It is possible to commission it in March this year. “The Aeronautics and Air Vehicle Equipment Development Institute located at AFIT Kaduna is one of the new institutes of NASENI approved by President Muhammadu Buhari. The institute has the mandate to research and develop spare parts, components and systems of Aeronautics and Air Vehicle Technologies. It is mandated to produce both passenger and military aircraft through backward integration. “Technologies prospecting for domestication from our counterpart agencies across the world for Aircraft manufacturing will have pilot plants for realization here in Kaduna by the Grace and will of God. “The facilities designed to be provided; machineries, equipment, laboratories, and workshops will be shared facilities with the AFIT and the Nigerian Airforce. “The Federal Government of Nigeria has planned to develop industrial parks for the Automotive sectors in three zones of the country: Nnewi – in Anambra State, Osogbo in Osun State and here in Igabi – Kaduna State. The project initiative is in line with the concept of Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment which initially proposed establishing the Automotive Supplier Industrial Park (ASIP) in these three locations in the country for technology evolution in the automotive sector. “This is in line with the mandate of NASENI for provision and development of primary and intermediate capital projects required for machine and equipment design, fabrication, and mass production, in order to provide the enabling environment for sustainable industrialization of the country. The project is being supervised for NASENI by the Hydraulic Equipment Development Institute (HEDI) Kano, an institute of NASENI for the Agency. “The project is intended to unlock the opportunities in auto sector as well as potentials in the manufacturing industry with a view of creating employment, skilled labour in this region and the sub-Saharan Africa. It will earn foreign exchange for the country and stop importation of vehicle spare parts. Major vehicle manufacturers from different countries have indicated interest to operate from this facility. “It is also intended to provide the Nigerian Army Vehicle Manufacturing Company with the necessary support in the production of Armoured Vehicles. Once fully taken up and equipped, the automotive park will be self-sustaining and a government revenue source. “In the first phase of the project, the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning has earmarked Three Billion, Two Hundred and Fifty Million Naira (N3,250,000,000) for take up and we appreciate the Honourable Minister for the commitment and interest in the project. “We are equally grateful to Malam Nasir El-Rufai, the Executive Governor of Kaduna State for allocation of Fifty (50) Hectares of land and his magnanimity for granting waivers of all statutory fees for the title of the land. “We also appreciate the Nigerian Airforce for the collaboration and provision of adequate site policing and security since the commencement of the construction work. “Work in the phase one of the project comprising of perimeter fencing, construction of information and communication building, construction of Advanced Manufacturing Technology (AMT) workshop, construction of Automotive Spare Parts, sales and services outlet are all above eighty-five percent (85%). “Completion of phase one of the project within the next few weeks will enable commissioning and commencement of operation which can run concurrently with development works in phase two of the project”. Recalled that the NASENI Excecutive Vice Chairman and his team were at the AFIT on June 21, 2022 as part of the Agency’s preparation to relocate the first made in Nigeria helicopter project to the Institute as directed by President of Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Mohammed Buhari. However, the visit on Monday was scheduled as a follow up on their previous visit due to the change of baton at AFIT, it also doubled as a courtesy call to the new Commandant.