A group, the Bola Ahmed Tinubu Admirers Movement (BATAM), has described the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the biblical King Solomon that would ensure peace and development in Nigeria if elected. Addressing journalists, yesterday, in Lagos, BATAM President, Ibikunle Solana, said Tinubu has shown that he towered among othe presidential candidates, as one who believes strongly in the peace, unity progress of Nigeria. The group affirmed that he is a genuine and committed nationalist who would unifier Nigerians.  “Just as God made Solomon’s reign a peaceful one, he will ensure the Tinubu’s presidency will be the most peaceful and prosperous one the country has witnessed since 1999,” he said. The BATAM leader, while reeling out  APC flag bearer’s achievement explained that “as Lagos State governor, he employed and appointed several non -indigenes into the Lagos State civil service and his cabinet. Tinubu is not a religious fanatic, he does not discriminate against any religion or tribe. He is highly detribalised, non-nepotistic with a dynamic, pragmatic and progressive minded.  “The APC presidential candidate is extremely workaholic, peace-loving, visionary, and courageous. Asiwaju has a high capacity to identify and utilise quality and capable hands for the good of all. Tinubu is the man with the midas touch, whatever he touches turns to gold, an excellent manager of human and material resources.” On the controversial Muslim/Muslim ticket of Tinubu and his vice presidential candidate, Kashim Shettima, he said members of the group appreciated the concerns of opponents of the arrangement but assured that knowing the antecedents of the two candidates, they would not Islamise the country nor favour the Muslims more than the Christians.  “Their fears may have some merit, but we don’t believe in that theory. Rather, we view it from a more liberal and progressive perspective. We perceive it as a winning formulae, model and strategy on the part of Tinubu and the APC. Inflation does not care whether you are a Christian or Muslim. What Nigerians should bother about are the capacities and capabilities of the candidates to perform,” he said.  While the group urged the youths to shun electoral violence, it said they should not allow themselves to be used as political thugs for whatever reasons. BATAM president said politics and elections should not be seen as do-or-die affairs.