■ Congratulates Oyetola over Osun tribunal victory From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja  The All Progressives Congress (APC) has finally settled for April 10, 2023 as the tentative date for the conduct of party primaries for Kogi, Bayelsa and Imo states’ staggered governorship elections.  Though the mode of the primaries has been a source of controversy for the leadership of the party, however the National Working Committee (NWC), may have resolved to settle for direct mode of primaries for Imo and Bayelsa, and opted for indirect in Kogi. Only recently, the leadership of the party was enmeshed in controversy over the unilateral decision of the national chairman to notify the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) about the mode of the primaries for the three states without any formal deliberations by the party’s leadership. However, confiding in Saturday Sun over the development, an impeccable source close to the party’s national leadership said that the resolution was reached after this week’s meeting. “I can reliably inform you that the NWC has agreed to conduct primaries for the three states on April 10, this year. They have also resolved on the mode of primaries, settling for direct in two states of Imo and Bayelsa while they opted for indirect in Kogi. Every other issue has been sorted out and they are one united family for now,” the source said, pleading anonymity  Meanwhile, the ruling party has congratulated immediate past governor of Osun State, Adegboyega Oyetola, over his victory at the election tribunal on Friday, stressing that the verdict represents victory for democracy and the rule of law. The statement signed by the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Felix Morka, read: “APC heartily congratulates Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, our party faithful, and the good people of Osun State on the resounding victory at the Election Tribunal. “The tribunal’s verdict represents victory for democracy and the rule of law. It is a categorical affirmation of the will of the Osun electorate as expressed at the polls. “The peaceful conduct of the Osun governorship election and effective recourse procedures are eloquent testament to our party’s commitment to bequeathing a legacy of credible elections, and independent and fair dispensation of electoral justice.   “The tribunal’s findings and verdict on the pivotal question of over-voting yet again underscores the massive significance of the programme of electoral reform, and new and efficient technologies implemented by the APC-administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. Again, congratulations to the triumphant people of Osun State,” the statement read.