From Romanus Ugwu., Abuja The All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) has issued a revised campaign calendar for the party’s presidential candidate ahead of next month’s elections. The revised calendar issued by the APC National Publicity Secretary, Felix Morka, noted that the review had become necessary after a crucial and strategic meeting between the presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, his running mate, Kashim Shetimma, members of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF) and the PCC in Abuja on Monday night. The copy of the revised calendar showed that President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to attend rallies in Kwara and Bauchi states on January 17 and 23. According to the review, Buhari would  also lead the Southwest zone campaign to Ogun State on January 25, Sokoto State earlier slated for January 16, will now hold on 29 and the South-South mega rally expected to hold in Uyo, Akwa-Ibom State capital on the January 30. The February schedule showed that the President would  also grace the rally in Lafia, Nasarawa State on February 4, and serve as  chief host on the 6th in Kastina state. He is also expected to storm Owerri, Imo State on February 14 and attend the grand finale rally of the campaign on the 18th in Lagos. The APC candidate, according the schedule is slated to have an interactive session with NESG on Friday, January 13, while he engages all party state chairmen, governorship and National Assembly candidates the next day. The campaign train will move to Calabar, the Cross Rivers State capital, on January 19, just as Taraba State supporters will host the campaign team on January 20, Jigawa State – on 21; Abia State – on 24; while Benue and Zamfara States will host on January 26 and 28 respectively before the campaign council round up the month in Anambra on  January 31. The presidential running mate, Kashim Shetimma, is billed for the launching and commissioning of tractors for the All Farmers Progressive Association in Abuja on January 27. The Northwest state of Kebbi will play host to the campaign team on February 1, while Osun and Ekiti will take their turn on 2nd and 3rd. Rallies in Oyo, Kogi and Rivers States are scheduled for February 7, 8 and 9 before the train will move to the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja on February 11. Gombe, Borno and Kano States rallies will hold on February 13, 15 and 16 respectively while Osun State rally will hold on 18, instead of January 18 earlier date. Asiwaju,  according to the revised schedule will engage in a townhall meeting with health professionals in Nigeria in Abuja on February 10 and a strategic engagement with Southwest leaders in Lagos on February 17. A mega rally is planned to round off the campaign on the February 18, holds in Lagos while February 21 to 24 is side aside for election planning ahead of the presidential and National Assembly election.