Enugu State Governor, Hon Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, has said that The Sun Man of the Year 2022 award will serve as a filip to make him finish strong as his tenure winds down. He also said that the award was a validation of his administration’s modest achievements in the last seven and half years in office. Ugwuanyi and 25 others will be honoured at The Sun Awards ceremony on January 28, 2023 at the Expo Convention Centre, Eko Hotels & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. Speaking when the Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief, The Sun Publishing Limited, Onuoha Ukeh, led a team to present to him a letter nominating him as the Man of the Year 2022, Ugwuanyi expressed happiness that his administration’s fulfillment of its side of the Social Contract with Enugu people was being recognised by a reputable publishing company. He praised The Sun for its resilience and professionalism, while thanking its management for considering him worthy of the award. On what his administration has been able to do in office, Ugwuanyi said: “Most of the things that happen here are divinely inspired. We give God the glory and dedicate this award to Enugu people for their support and cooperation.” Ugwuanyi said that he was grateful to God that his administration was able to accomplish so much despite the challenges created by two economic recessions and the COVID-19 pandemic. Earlier, The Sun MD said Ugwuanyi emerged as the Man of the Year after a rigorous selection process by the Board of Editors. On why the choice was made, he said: “All sectors bear the visible imprint of your turnaround,” adding that the governor’s sustained urban renewal programme and several initiatives to promote security, peace, unity, ease of doing business etc have made Enugu State a preferred destination. Ukeh cited the Ugwuanyi administration’s construction of magistrate’s courts in all local government areas, reconstruition of critical roads, construction of a flyover bridge at Abakpa Nike to solve the problem of gridlock in Enugu metropolis, among others, as some of the governor’s achievements. The MD noted that Ugwuanyi’s commitment to foster an enduring turnaround of the education and health sectors was evident in the construction of the University of Medical and Applied Sciences (SUMAS). “Your robust investment in the health sector is across all layers, from the primary health care level to the tertiary. The outcome is improved access to healthcare and reduced infant mortality,” he said. Specifically on education, Ukeh said: “You have built and renovated hundreds of primary school blocks of classrooms, provided learning and teaching facilities and recruited more than 6,000 teachers. “Your Excellency supplied and installed computers in 209 secondary schools and science equipment in 294 secondary schools. The infrastructure transformation of state-owned tertiary institutions, including the Institute of Management and Technology (IMT), Enugu and Enugu State University of Technology (ESUT), with such projects as new block of 15 ultra-modern classrooms on two suspended floors with seating capacity of 1,224 students; block of ultra-modern offices for Registry Division (Exams and Records) with accommodation for a minimum of 75 staff, are also on record.” He said the governor had done much to ensure security in Enugu, stating: “You have supported the security agencies by providing vehicles, equipment and logistics, which have boosted their efficiency. Your inclination towards ‘politics without bitterness,’ which has encouraged political tolerance and harmony, irrespective of political party affiliation, has added to the peace in Enugu State.” Apart from Ugwuanyi, others who will also receive awards are, Malam Mele Kyari, Chief Operating Officer of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (Man of the Year); Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State, Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State and Governor Umaru Fintiri of Adamawa (Governor of the Year); Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State (Courage in Leadership); Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State (Political Icon) and Dr. Zainab Shinkafi-Bagudu (First Lady of the Year). Other award winners are, General Overseer, Omega Power Ministries, Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere, Chief James Chijioke Ume, Chairman, Unubiko Foundation (Humanitarian Icon); Mr. Festus Mbisiogu, Chairman, Shanghai Engineering Works Limited, Lady Ada Chukwudozie of Dozzy Group (Industrialist of the Year); Barr Mrs. Ngozi Ekeoma, Managing Director, Nepal Energies Limited, Chief Benjamin Igwe (Entrepreneur of the Year) as well as Dr. Stanley Uzochukwu, Chairman of Stanel Group and Dr. John-Kennedy Opara, Chairman, CSS Ingrated Farms Limited (Investor of the Year). Also to receive awards are, Chief Kelvin Jumbo Onumah, Chairman of Sublime Group Limited (Hospitality Personality), Mercy Johnson-Okogie (Nollywood Personality); philanthropist and elder statesman, Chief Gabriel Igbinedion, Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife, ex-Anambra State governor; Alhaja Sinatu Ojikutu, ex-Lagos Deputy Governor, Alhaji Sule Lamido, former Jigawa State governor (Lifetime Achievement). Others are, Prof. Mohammed Sani Haruna, Executive Vice Chairman, National Agency for Science, Engineering Infrastructure; Dr. George Moghalu, MD, National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA); Dr. Richard Okoye, Chief Medical Director, Save A Mission Hospital, Port Harcourt (Public Service) and Mr. Olukayode Pitan, MD, Bank of Industry (Banker of the Year).