The first leg of the semifinals of the Carabao Cup between Southampton and Newcastle United, Nottingham Forest and Manchester United is set to broadcast on GOtv. Tonight, Southampton will host Newcastle United at the St Mary Stadium for the first-leg of the two-legged tie. The Saints shocked the world when they defeated 8-time winner, Manchester City in the quarterfinals. Two first half goals from Sekou Mara and Moussa Djenepo were enough to secure a slot in the last four for the Saints after Pep Guardiola’s men failed to register a shot on target in the match. Southampton will have to be in their best form to overcome an in-form Newcastle. The match will be broadcast live on SuperSport Football (Ch 31) at 9:00pm. Although Nigerian star Joe Aribo has lost his place in the team since Nathan Jones replaced Ralph Hassenhutti as the manager at Southampton, he will be hoping to get the nod for tonight’s  game. Meanwhile, Jones has urged his team to improve their performance against the visitors. “The Semi-final is going to be tough, tough, tough. Though it won’t be any tougher than playing Manchester City. I watched the game where Newcastle were here (NUFC won 4-1 at Southampton) prior to my appointment and we have got to be better than that,” Jones said in reaction to the Carabao Cup draw. On Wednesday night, Nottingham Forest will take on Manchester United. Steve Cooper’s men will be without their talismanic goalkeeper, Dean Henderson, who is ineligible to play against his parent club. The match will be broadcast live on SuperSport Football (Ch 31) at 9:00pm. Henderson, who is currently on loan at the City Ground from United, was the hero for Nottingham when they beat Wolves 4-3 in the quarterfinals after they played 1-1 in normal time. A frustrated Cooper bemoaned Henderson’s imminent absence against United at the post-match briefing with BBC Sports. “After seeing the night he had tonight, he was excellent in the penalty shootout, but he was good in the game, more than good in the game. It’s unfortunate. He’s part of our group, he is so invested in the group and how we work, what we’re trying to accelerate in terms of what we want to become,” he said.