From Charity Nwakaudu, Abuja The presidential candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), Dumebi Kachikwu, has resumed his campaign after two weeks of isolation due to his COVID status. Kachikwu made this disclosure at a press conference held in Abuja, yesterday. He said Nigerians are in the present situation due to their inability to ask questions before taking action. He lamented that the ruling party trying to repeat what they did eight years ago, adding that Senator Ahmed Bola Tinubu has no business being in this race or continuing due to his health and age. In his words “I am glad to be back to work after almost two weeks of isolation due to an infection of the coronavirus. The APC skilfully manipulated the minds and emotions of Nigerians and successfully delivered a so-called reformed dictator as President of Nigeria. Eight years later, we now know that when people say change, we should ask for a change in what direction. Even children don’t want to hear the word change. We are in this mess because we don’t question anything as a people. We are apathetic to politics and governance. We fail to see the connection between government, governance and our lives because for too long the Nigerian government has merely existed in name only to the Nigerian people. I personally believe that President Buhari had some good intentions in mind when he ran for office but alas when his health failed, his government also failed. Today, the same APC that failed the Nigerian people monumentally with a sick president has presented another sick candidate to the Nigerian people. There is nothing wrong with being old or sick as we will all get old someday. We also all get sick at some point or the other. What I do have a problem with, is a candidate with significant cognitive disabilities embarrassing my nation and making a mockery of the entire political process. Senator Ahmed Bola Tinubu has no business being in this race or continuing this race. He has said it is his turn and I agree: it is his turn to do the honourable thing and withdraw from this race. I call on his family, his party, the APC and President Buhari to prevail on him to do the right thing. I also call on INEC to wake up from their slumber. We can’t continue to be known as the nation that conducts sham elections. INEC can’t continue to pretend not to see the voter inducement that takes place at rallies all over the country. What of the primaries? Has anyone been indicted, sanctioned or punished?”