From Gyang Bere, Jos Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, Ignatius Kaigama,  has asked Nigerians not to be guided by their stomachs and pockets, but their hearts and heads when voting  in the 2023 elections. He stated this in his New Year message, yesterday, cautioning Nigerians to be wary of predatory politicians who would use religion, ethnicity and regions to divide citizens. The cleric who quoted  from Philippians Chapter 4 verse 8,  urged Nigerians to be guided by the biblical counsel of Apostle Paul in their choice of political parties and candidates. He advised that money and stomach infrastructure should not be the motivating factors in voting. “We have a duty to come out, each one of us, with a Permanent Voters Card (PVC), queue up at our polling units, conduct ourselves peacefully and orderly, get accredited and cast our votes during the 2023 general elections. “As for the choice of political parties and candidates to vote for, we should be guided by the counsel of St. Paul, which says: “whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable – if anything is excellent or praiseworthy – think about such things” (Philippians 4:8)…In choosing who to vote, let your head and your heart guide you, not your stomach and your pocket… “Politicians who are on the campaign trails now should do so without hatred, bitterness, incitement or misinformation. They should exercise caution that they do not make wild and unrealistic campaign promises that deep in their hearts they know are not workable,” he said. Meanwhile, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has described 2023 as a year of golden opportunities for Nigeria, urging the people not to miss or misuse the chance the forthcoming elections would  create to choose leaders who would lead the country to greatness. President of CAN, Archbishop Daniel Okoh, who stated this, yesterday,  urged those jostling for elective offices to be more responsible in playing politics with the best interest of the masses at heart. In his New Year Message,which he titled, “2023 will be the year of a turnaround in Nigeria’s fortune’”the CAN President assured CAN would remain non-partisan and would not interfere in the duties of government agencies, but s promote and support good governance at all levels. He said: “…2023 is a year of golden opportunities for us as a people. I pray that Nigerians will not miss or misuse the opportunity to choose leaders with focus and compassion who will lead our country to greatness. I earnestly appeal to our security agencies not to relent in their efforts to ensure safety and security in our land; and also support the conduct of peaceful general elections in 2023. “Our politicians should realise that we don’t have any other country but Nigeria. Consequently, this reality should inspire them to be more responsible in playing politics with the best interest of the masses at heart. “In the same vein, religious leaders should know that there is life after general elections of 2023. Therefore, our speeches and conduct should focus on encouraging our people to build a Nigeria where equity, justice and fairness will reign supreme. “While we look forward to having a better Nigeria, let us continue praying that the Lord will strengthen our present political leaders to oversee the elections and a successful transition to a new administration in 2023. CAN will continue to partner with government, civil societies and development partners to build a peaceful and prosperous country…Finally, we urge the government to do more to stop the downward trend of our economy by checking the sources of leakages and wastage of our national resources in 2023. May 2023 be the year of a divine turnaround in the fortunes of our nation in Jesus’ mighty name. I wish all Nigerians a peaceful and highly prosperous new year.” Also,  Executive Secretary, Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission, Rev. Yakubu Pam has admonished Nigerians to embrace the New Year with excitement, describing 2023 as a year that God would uplift Nigeria. He stated this in a message to celebrate 2023 saying the year would be special not because it is an election year, but  a year of God’s divine mercy and upliftment for Nigeria. He urged Nigerians to be hopeful, trust in the Lord for his promises must surely come to pass. He also tasked citizens  to rise up and engage in productive activities to realise the full measure of God’s blessings for the year. The cleric further urged  Nigerians to participate in the electioneering process and ensure they cast their votes in the forthcoming general election. He admonished INEC  to do everything humanly possible to achieve a credible, free and fair election at all levels. He equally called on church leaders and Imams to preach the message of peace to their followers and enjoin them not to be used as anti state operators particularly during the 2023  general elections.