The recent report that cancer kills about 78,000 Nigerians and infects not less than 125 Nigerians annually is a sign that the disease is not abating despite measures put in place by the federal and state governments to check it. Nigeria has about 233,911 cancer cases. The estimated incidence for breast cancer in Nigeria is 27 per cent, cervix uteri (14 per cent), liver (12 per cent), prostate (12 per cent), and colorectum (4.1 per cent). Please enable JavaScript In all, breast cancer remains the most common type of cancer in Nigeria. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), cancer is the second leading cause of death worldwide. About 10 million deaths were attributed to cancer in 2020 Low-and middle-income countries bear most of the cancer burden. Out of the nearly 10 million cancer-related deaths worldwide, about 70 per cent were in low-and middle-income countries. In the case of cervical cancer, 90 per cent of new cases and deaths from this preventable cancer occurs in low-and middle-income countries. In sub-Saharan Africa, cancer incidence is projected to increase more than 92 per cent in 2040. This was disclosed recently by medical experts as part of events to mark this year’s World Cancer Day. The theme for this year is “Closing the care gap: Everyone deserves access to cancer care.” It is part of a multi-year campaign from 2022-24 to reduce the global impact of the disease. The campaign is tailored to increase awareness of how individuals can live in ways that will reduce their cancer risk. It is also meant to encourage policymakers to implement the policies that will reduce cancer incidence and mortality by creating equal access to cancer care, and healthful societies and environments. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO) Regional Director for Africa, Dr. Matshidiso Moeti, approximately 1.1 million new cancer cases occur each year in Africa, with about 700,000 deaths. Data estimates show a considerable increase in cancer mortality to nearly one million deaths per year by 2030, if there are no urgent and bold interventions. Experts say that the most common cancers in adults include breast (16.5 per cent), cervical (13.1 per cent), prostate (9.4 per cent), colorectal (6 per cent), and liver (4.6 per cent). The report says further that childhood cancer incidence in sub-Saharan Africa is estimated at 56.3 million population. It has been projected that Africa will account for nearly 50 per cent of the global childhood cancer by 2050. The major cause of cancer in Nigeria, according to medical experts, is tobacco use. It is the most important risk factor for cancer. It is responsible for about 22 per cent of cancer deaths. It has also been reported that cancer causing infections, such as hepatitis and human papilloma virus (HPV), are responsible for up to 25 per cent of cancer cases in low-and middle-income countries. The five deadliest cancers are prostate, pancreatic, breast, colorectal and lung cancer. It is regrettable that in spite of measures to curb the disease, Nigeria is still recording rising cases of cancer annually. We urge the federal and state health authorities to use this year’s commemoration of the World Cancer Day to increase awareness about the disease, the causative factors, preventive measures and access to treatment. While cancer is deadly, early detection can lead to cure. Cancer is not a death sentence. Therefore, we urge Nigerians to undergo cancer checks at least once a year. Since the cost of treatment is rising steadily, the government can consider subsidising the cost of treatment, especially for indigent patients.  Let the government come up with urgent and bold interventions to halt the rise in cancer cases. We must strive to close the care gap and ensure that everyone with the condition has access to quality care and treatment. There is need to have special cancer hospitals in all the six geopolitical zones of the country in order to reduce the medical tourism induced by the disease. The state governments are enjoined to devote more funds and resources to the health sector. They should stop paying lip service to the vital sector. Nigerians spent billions of naira annually on medical tourism because of long neglect of the health sector. This is the time to change the narrative.