…Promises to soften ground soon through legal means From Noah Ebije,Kaduna  Kaduna State governor, Nasir El-rufai has advised the people of the State to ignore calls for mass protest over cash swap hardship following naira redesign by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). In a crucial meeting on Tuesday with market leaders in the State capital, governor El-Rufai assured the people of imminent legal solution to the socio-economic crisis caused by naira scarcity. In a press statement issued by the State Commissioner for internal security and home affairs, Samuel Aruwan, shortly after the meeting, it noted  that certain individuals and groups were planning a mass protests because of the acute shortage of cash and resultant hardships faced by citizens.” Along these lines, Governor Nasir El-Rufai on Tuesday met with the leadership of the Kaduna State Markets Traders Association, to reiterate appeals for patience and calm.  “The Governor assured the meeting that legal means were being vigorously explored in tandem with other state governments, towards relieving the present sufferings. He disclosed that the outcomes of these processes were expected imminently.  “With the Governor at the meeting were the Senator representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District, Senator Uba Sani, the Administrator Kaduna Capital Territorial Authority, Hafiz Bayero and Commissioner, Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan. “T he Kaduna State Government wishes to appeal for caution and vigilance by all citizens, amidst the prevailing situation arising from the ongoing cash swap and currency redesign policy.  “The Government is aware that certain individuals and groups have made plans to organise massive protests, seizing on the acute shortage of cash and attendant hardships faced by citizens. “Citizens are reminded that care must be taken not to play into the plans of devious elements seeking to create crisis in this crucial period. Citizens are thus advised to ignore these calls for massive protests in the interest of public security. “The Government expresses its sincerest empathy over the tight situation, and urges for calm and restraint as efforts continue to be made towards easing the difficulties”.