From Chijioke Agwu, Abakaliki Ebonyi State Government, yesterday, said it will appeal the judgement of the Federal High Court Abakaliki, which voided the establishment and operations of Ebubeagu security outfit in the state. The Special Security Consultant (SSC) to the state government, Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha, made the disclosure in Abakaliki, the state capital, yesterday. Chief Emegha, who enumerated some of the achievements of the security outfit to include; working in tandem with other security agencies to safeguard lives and property of the citizenry, noted that “the court must have been hoodwinked to deliver such judgement that is anti-people.” He expressed optimism that the appellate court would reverse the verdict in due course, not just because the men of Ebubeagu security outfit are operating professionally, and also innocent of the alleged offences, but because the outfit has a firm legal backing to its existence and operations.  The special security consultant further noted that the opposition, who instituted the case, knew that the judgement would not scale through the next round of judicial scrutiny. He advised them to stop seeking public sympathy because of the abysmal failure facing them in the forthcoming general elections. “Nothing can save them from the obvious irredeemable election failure awaiting them. Ebonyi people are comfortable and happy with the achievements of Governor David Umahi and have already pitched their tent with the APC. They are yearning for continuity and consolidation.  “You have the full knowledge that in the whole of South East, Ebonyi is the only state where sit-at-home order is not effective, hence, hustling and bustling go on uninterruptedly on a daily basis. The state has become the perfect destination for investors and tourists. All these gains are courtesy of Ebubeagu Security Outfit”.   “It should be noted and recorded that immediately after the court’s judgement, security intelligence revealed that the people of the state were eager to hit the street in protest of the dissolution of the Ebubeagu security outfit, but we swung into action and calmed their nerves with a promise to appeal the judgement and get expected result soon.”