From Judex Okoro, Calabar The Cross River State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Sen. Bassey Edet Otu, has promised to restore light and tackle security challenges in Bakassi and Akpabuyo local governement areas if elected in the pending poll. Speaking at a separate strategic Town Hall meetings with critical stakeholders and at rallies held at both Bakassi and Akpabuyo at the weekend, Otu further promised to pay attention tosocio-economic and infrastructural development if elected. He said he is not new to the problems of the two local governement areas that have contributed immensley to national unity and development. Speaking at Bakassi, an elated Otu expressed gratitude to the people for the warm and rousing reception and described Bakassi as his home. He said: “In my history in politics, I have never lost an election in Bakassi and I’m sure of a 100 per cent vote of the people.” “I understand the problems of Bakassi. If I’m elected, one of the first things I will do is to restore light to Bakassi and sort out the insecurity issues.” In Akpabuyo, Sen. Otu acknowledged the sacrifices of the people of Akpabuyo, saying “Akpabuyo has always stood behind me in all my elections. “The incoming administration will, as a matter of priority, restore electricity to Akpabuyo, I’ll upgrade your medical facilities, construct your road networks and deal with the issues of insecurity” Also speaking at the event, Governor Ben Ayade called on the people to vote and support all APC candidates from the Presidency to the State House of Assembly. “Otu is a good man. He is qualified and ready for the job, he is competent, he has the experience. “I ask for your votes for our Presidential Candidate Sen. Ahmed Bola Tinubu, our Governroship candidate, Sen. Prince Bassey Otu, our Senatorial candidate, Hon. Asuquo Ekpenyong, our house of Reps and all other candidates because they are eminently qualified, tried, tested and proven.” The All Progressives Congress (APC) has been on campaign tour if the local areas across the state. In the campaign train include state APC Chairman, Alphonsus Eba, Esq, Amb. Soni Abang, the Director-General of Basswy Otu Campaign Organisation amd other members of state working committee.