from Charity Nwakaudu and Idu Jude Abuja As the controversy over the naira swap rages on, the National Chairman of National Rescue Movement NRM, Ambassador Isaac Udeh, has alleged that the supreme court and governors of the  ruling All progressive Congress APC, has politicised the naira swap, which ordinarily would have been the best policy under Buhari administration. The NRM National Chairman, made the remark, Thursday, while briefing media men on the state on Nigeria politics, with the call for the Supreme court and to toe the way of justice and respect to right of the masses. According to Ambassador Isaac Udeh,   the fact that some people have been arrested over the hoarding of new naira notes is an indication that the CBN has actually performed well to see that corruption in this country is stamped out in it’s entirety. Ambassador Isaac, said, ” we are here in an endemic corrupt society. And I can say that the bank CEOs are to be blamed because CBN has actually done well to release enough new naira notes. It shows that the Government does not want the people to suffer but those behind the corridor of power are corrupt”. Speaking on the Supreme court order of stay of execution on new naira notes, emphasized that the Governors of All Progressive congress APC, has politicised the move by making the approach to suoreme court a party affair. ” I suppose that the selection of state governors should have cought across all political parties for example , a Governor from a PDP state, another one from APC and other from APGA or another party. Come to talk of that, why should the Governors now fight over naira swap, where as they were there during 8 months of ASSU strike and our children sitting at home due to strike action and months of fuel scarcity with no reactions from them. Why now that a good policy is made that they oppose it? He urged the Governors  not to truncate the policy which is meant to enshrine good process, stating that Nigeria remains the only inheritance from the forefathers irrespective of ethnic groups. On NRM presidential candidates’ chances in the 2023 election, he reiterated that chances of it’s Candidate Rev. Felix Osakwe is bright as the party have perfected all strategy for moving into Aso Villa. The National Chairman, who claimed the party has about 825 candidates among which are 27 governorship spread across Nigeria are hopeful to win. He said, ” my party is still in for the presidential race. We are not pulling out, no matter what have happened as other political parties has threatened should naira swap fails. We are commencing our campaign and rally 10 days to the election as a strategy adopted to spring surprises”. Speaking on the capability of INEC in conducting the general election, Ambassador Isaac Udeh, while expressing confidence in the capability of the INEC chairman, observed that Mamoud Yakub, is really prepared for the task ahead haven mobilized all mechanism to the election. He further called on Nigerian youths not to allow themselves to be used in the forth coming elections adding that it is time get things right again.