By Lukman Olabiyi, Lagos Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Ahead of the February 25 presidential election, Nigerians have been told to avoid situations that could lead to crises and chaos similar to the experience of the June 12, 1993, annulled election. Chief Abimbola Aboderin, elder statesman and publisher of Guru Magazine, gave the warnings in a statement made available to the media. Chief Aboderin said the June 12 experience was nothing but a complete disappointment and disregard of people’s wishes to enthrone a democratically elected president of their choice. He stated that the annulment of the June 12 election, which was acclaimed by the international communities to be the freest and fairest in the history of Nigeria came with stiff opposition that eventually led to a series of crises that nearly broke the country. He warned that the Saturday, February 25 polls must be free and fair, and devoid of pogroms that could jeopardise the chances of the voters to choose their leaders. Chief Aboderin insisted also that complaints after the election must go through a court of competent jurisdiction. “Nigeria will not accept anarchy, chaos and doom. Our present crop of politicians must give peace a chance. Politics should not be seen as a matter of life and death,” he said. “Whoever that wins the election must be magnanimous in victory by identifying with the opposition as brothers in national progress. “The world is watching us as the election approaches and Nigeria being the leading figure in Africa is at the centre of every activity that could trigger success or failure in Africa. “Nigeria is a very important country. I have met the most powerful people in Europe and America and I know what it means to be a Nigerian. Aboderin, who authored a book on the June 12 experience, also charged the media to play its fundamental role without bias or sentiment, adding that the role of the media in an election is like a referee in a football game, whose job is to be neutral. “I believe it is the fundamental role of the media to report the events as they unfold without being biased. “Objective reportage is essential at this critical moment and the media must be up and doing in delivering this onerous task. “It is the media’s job to broadcast or report an event and enlighten the public about good governance, so as to influence the global audience to access the growth of democracy through the credible election in our country. “The media must report and broadcast the general election with the best intention to discourage votes manipulation, vote-buying, ballot snatching during the election so that Nigeria can have a successful and hitch-free election,” he stated.