From Scholastica Onyeka, Makurdi The Abuja Sector of the Student Christian Movement, (SCM), has called on the Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC), to ensure that the forthcoming elections are conducted in a free and fair manner and to meet up with international best standards for a truly democratic process.  Sectoral President, Mr BASENE Harcourt-Whyte, made this call while briefing newsmen on the World Student Christian Federation (WSCF) activities for her 2023 “FEDERATION WEEK.” and to make known their stand of the movement on some issues relating to good governance and entrenchment of an enduring democratic culture in Nigeria.  He also urged all political parties participating in the election to strictly abide by the tenets of agreement they signed on Thursday, 29th of September, 2022.  He said, “That Peace Accord initiated by the Nigerian Peace Committee (NPC) led by former Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalam Abubakar and Roman Catholic Bishop Matthew Kukah should not be trampled upon. “Leaders of these parties must proactively encourage their supporters to stay away from violence and doing nothing to incite it before, during and after the elections. We say it loud and clear here “No to violence,” he said. He maintained that SCM strongly preaches against all forms of vote buying, under-age voting and other detrimental anti-democratic practices that will mar the outcomes of these elections. He also urge all relevant Nigerian agencies to join them in the in the noble stand sating “We sincerely believe that good governance, economic prosperity and acceptable civic responsibility are all products of democratic processes that run on the wheels of transparency, fairness and justice.  “We in SCM strongly believe that Nigeria is beginning a glorious journey with the 2023 elections. We welcome all ideas and genuine criticisms that are designed to keep us on a forward move.  He explained the SCM of Nigeria is an affiliate member of the WSCF which uses the third week of every year to create awareness within the society and the church on her work across her more than 100-member countries around the world.  According to him, this year’s event comes up with the 128 years anniversary celebrations of the WSCF work among students and young people and 83 years of similar operations 11in Nigeria with the theme for this year’s event “Civic Responsibility And Good Governance” and comes uniquely apt and timely for those in Nigeria considering the forthcoming elections both in this February and March 2023.