From Adanna Nnamani, Abuja  Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate, Peter Obi, has told his supporters to accept money from other parties’ candidates attempting to buy their votes, but vote for him. The former Anambra State governor, stated this, yesterday, during the party’s campaign rally at the old Parade Ground, Abuja. He said if elected, he would work for the economic growth and prosperity of the country and its citizens without appropriating state funds for himself. “I and Datti have said, ‘hold us responsible for a new Nigeria.’ We will change this country. We will stop all this stealing. None of us has stolen money from government. Our record is clear. They told you I am stingy because they have stolen all the money. They want to buy your votes; if they give you money, take it, it is your money, but vote for us.”  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The LP flag bearer vowed to tackle security challenges and make Nigeria a country that every citizen would be proud of.   “What Datti and I are offering you is simple; we are offering you security of lives and property, we will fight insecurity. The thieves and criminals are no more formidable, except that there is no leadership. We will ensure that we unite Nigeria. We will ensure that no Nigerian after five years, will ever say that “I am from the East, North or South but that I am a Nigerian.” You will be proud of your country because your country will move from consumption to production.  “Today we have 35 per cent unemployment. To show you how bad things are in your country, in 2012, the number of Nigerians that were in absolute poverty was 55 million. Today, it is 95 million. Unemployment was 15 per cent, today it is 35 per cent. Everything goes down. That is what we want to reverse. Young people in Nigeria do not know where their next meal will come from. We have high level of youth unemployment. We will employ our youths. We will make them productive. We have vast land in the north where our youths will be engaged and they will be productive.  Nigeria will feed itself. Nigeria will be a great nation again.  We don’t want excuses again. That is what Datti and I are offering you.”  Obi said a new Nigeria was possible, adding that the youths were the ones contesting for the February 25 election through him.  Obi restated  the election would be about  character, competence and capacity of the presidential candidate rather than religion, tribe or sentiments.