David De Gea has reached another landmark as he makes his 400th Premier League appearance in the game against Leeds United. The 32-year-old joined the club from Atletico Madrid in 2011, making his league debut in a 2-1 win at West Brom. His 50th appearance came just two years later, and the Spaniard celebrated it with a clean sheet; a 1-0 win at against Reading in March 2013, with Wayne Rooney as the sole goalscorer. De Gea hit a century of appearances for the club on September 27, 2014 in a 2-1 win against West Ham, with Robin van Persie and Rooney, again, on the scoresheet.  The Spaniard’s 250th Premier League appearance came at the Vitality Stadium, as Manchester United ran out 2-1 victors against Bournemouth courtesy of goals from Anthony Martial and Marcus Rashford. Now, De Gea looks to Elland Road as he makes his 400th Premier League appearance for United, becoming the first non-British player to hit this figure for a single club since the division started in 1992. “We have always tough games to go and we already faced many tough games this season,” Erik ten Hag said before the game to Sky Sports. “And David De Gea is experienced and always very helpful to be calm. “He knows when to speed up the games, slow down the game and he knows when to support the team with his coaching, which is an important role.” This season, De Gea has kept eight clean sheets in the Premier League, ranking him third behind Nick Pope (12) and Aaron Ramsdale (9), while also boosting him to fifth in Premier League’s all-time clean sheet rankings with 138. Just David Seaman (141), Mark Schwarzer (151), David James (169), and Petr Cech (202) are ahead of him. With the club’s impressive defensive record this season, De Gea will be anticipating moving further up those rankings in the near future. Since his arrival to Manchester in 2011, De Gea has never made fewer than 28 appearances in a Premier League season. Our no.1 has made the goalkeeping position his own, and this season hit the impressive landmark of 500 appearances in all competitions. He recently entered Manchester United’s top 10 all-time appearance list, as he closes in on Denis Irwin in ninth, with 529 appearances.