• NUEE, SSANIP call for total blackout By Bimbola Oyesola  Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has directed all its affiliates in Abia State to begin an indefinite strike against the state government from today. This followed the expiration of the ultimatum issued against the state government in relation to its refusal to implement the minimum wage. NLC affiliates in support of the congress, yesterday, mandated their members to withdraw their services from today.  National Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE), in a statement by its President, Martin Uzoegwu, yesterday, directed its members to join the strike.   “Members are hereby directed to commence mobilisation towards the proposed Nigeria Labour Congress’ (NLC) strike against the Abia government slated to begin today throughout the state. “As an affiliate member of congress, you are to mobilise our members in Abia State in synergy with other affiliates; in total compliance with congress’ directive,” he said in the statement. The electricity union ordered its members to withdraw services At 00:00 hours, “you must ensure withdrawal of supply to the state,” the union leadership said, adding that the eastern zonal leadership and all NUEE members in Abia State must ensure full compliance.  In the same vein, leadership of Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Polytechnic (SSANIP), in a statement by its acting National Secretary, Emmanuel Enyiegor, directed all its members to commence strike today, in compliance with NLC action against the state. He lamented that this was to support the NLC in its fight against the refusal of the Abia State government to implement the new minimum wage and pension. The union insisted that full compliance is expected from its members as the order came from the congress. The NLC, two weeks ago has served a notice of intention to stage what it described as the ‘mother of all strikes’ in Abia State over the alleged government’s refusal to offset arrears of workers’ salaries and pension retirement benefits. In a letter dated, February 13, 2023, signed by the President of NLC, Joe Ajaero, and forwarded to Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, the congress also warned the government to stop the victimisation of workers and trade unions in the state.