From Adanna NnamanI, Abuja The Obi-Datti Media organization has said that reports making rounds on social media that Mr Peter Obi gave out the sum of two billion naira to Christians under the umbrella body of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Catholic Bishops Conference (CBC) and the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) to induce them, were an attempt by “desperadoes” to blackmail the Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate. The Obi-Datti Media office in a statement at the weekend, recalled that it had earlier alerted the nation of a grand design to fatally injure the high-rising political profile of the LP Presidential Candidate with what they called a ‘killer punch’ propaganda material. It also said it is aware of the fact that onecannot be in front of a political competition and not get roughen, especially if in the race with morally bankrupt persons. “The petition is said to have been signed by one Pastor Frank Onwumere of the Dominion Center International based in Okigwe, Imo state. Obi-Datti Media feels the institutions so mentioned in the write-up have enough instruments to tackle such cheap extortion. “That is why we will continue to be amused by the desperation of some opponents to search for faults on the front-running Presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Mr. Peter Obi, and the apparent frustration of not finding any. “The LP standard bearer has remained the most searched and fact-checked one among the four top Presidential candidates for obvious reasons. He is the only one running an issue-driven campaign and therefore, provoking intellectual conversations. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “But as Election Day draws nearer and the victory of their ‘unwanted’ Obi looks real, the anger and frustration of some dubious characters have increased. “We are even beginning to notice some state of despair which is resulting in senseless violence and blackmail all aimed at distracting and removing the candidate’s eyes already glued to the ball. “Our mission in the Obidient Movement this day is to alert and warn discerning minds, especially those desirous to see a new Nigeria emerge through Peter Obi to ignore and treat as thrash any doctored and faked items on Obi. Anything they are bringing now after their long fruitless search is concocted to tarnish the hard-earned reputation of the candidate and should be disregarded. “Obi-Datti Media is proud to insist that the LP standard bearer and his running mate remain the best product in the market for the much-needed political leadership in the country at this time. And to state without any fear of contradiction that they stand out untainted and possess the prerequisite qualities needed to rescue this troubled land. “Indicators from the Obi-Datti strategy room show that many more blackmails have been lined up in the coming days in a desperate move to drag down the man generally accepted as the right man for the job. “The public should therefore have their eyes permanently glued to the ball and refuse to be distracted by any antics because all the devious acts will give way to reason and justice and Nigeria will be successfully taken back from them and reset for greatness” the statement said.