From Emmanuel Adeyemi, Lokoja Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The people of Kogi West senatorial district in Kogi State have been charged to be steadfast and committed to the ongoing efforts to rescue Nigeria from misrule by voting for Atiku Abubakar and other candidates of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the coming February 25 and March 11 general elections. A former governor of Kogi State, Alhaji Ibrahim Idris made the charge on Saturday at Kabba while addressing a well-attended mega rally organised by the PDP to showcase its candidates contesting the election. Idris said the people of the district should end the widespread suffering in the country by voting for Atiku as the next president of Nigeria. He described Atiku as a detribalised Nigerian who has the experience and capacity to rescue Nigerians from pangs of hunger, poverty, insecurity and unemployment. The former governor warned the people to eschew sentiment and allow common sense to guide them while casting their votes. Idris said the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has plunged the country into monumental crises, saying that only tested, trusted and experienced politicians like Atiku Abubakar can navigate Nigeria out of its present state of abyss. He charged the electorate in the district not to give APC the chance to win any of the elective positions, urging them to vote only for the PDP candidates to make the rescue mission easier for the incoming PDP government to accomplish. Staunch party members including a former Speaker of the Kogi State House of Assembly, Hon. Alfa Ahmed Imam, Hon. Yahaya Karaku, Hon. Victor Adoji from Kogi East were at the rally. In his speech at the rally, the state chairman of the PDP, Mr Sam Ohuotu charged party members to close ranks and approach the coming elections with determination and the sole purpose of defeating the APC. He decried the discomfort and sufferings Nigerians have been subjected to since 2015 under the APC, urging the voters to rise up to liberate themselves by voting for all PDP candidates in the coming election. The Chairman appealed to the people of Kogi State to help PDP back to power by voting for all its candidates contesting the election. Ohuotu said the state is blessed with abundant solid mineral resources which can be exploited and developed to reduce poverty, create jobs and wealth for the people of the state A staunch member of the PDP in the state, Senator Tunde Ogbeha charged members of the party and voters in the zone to vote en masse for the party in the elections. Ogbeha said the APC has failed woefully, saying that the party should not be rewarded with another term. Also addressing the rally, Chief Shola Akanmode stressed the need for party members to embark upon a door-to-door campaign for the party’s presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and other candidates of the party contesting the elections. Akanmode, a former Deputy Chief of staff in the presidency also charged them not to give in to tribal sentiments being bandied about some elements. He said that Nigerians are facing common problems of hunger, poverty, unemployment and insecurity irrespective of tribe and religion, urging them to vote for Atiku and other candidates of the PDP to save the country from total collapse. Former National Publicity Secretary of the PDP and one of the spokesmen of Atiku Abubakar, Hon. Kola Ologbondiyan who addressed the rally in the local dialect said the APC has failed to meet the expectations of Nigerians since coming to power. Ologbondiyan said the APC has also failed to deliver on its campaign promises to Nigerians. He said the APC promised to fight corruption, stop the insurgency, provide jobs, give a stable power supply, and provide infrastructure but failed to deliver on any of these. Ologbondiyan said Atiku Abubakar is most prepared for the job among those contesting the presidential election on February 25. According to him, Atiku Abubakar, as a former Vice President knows Aso Rock Villa inside out, and has the experience, knowledge, intellect and gut to lead Nigeria out of its many troubles. He called on Nigerians not to gamble with the future, growth and development of the country by voting for the wrong candidate, saying Atiku Abubakar remains Nigeria’s best bet as its next president. The former PDP national spokesman also urged the voters to vote for all other candidates of the party contesting the national and state assembly elections. The Kogi West zonal Chairman of PDP, Sam Abenemi, called on party members to be resolute by voting for PDP from top to bottom. He called on them to come out in their large numbers to vote for the candidates of the PDP in the elections. Abenemi further charged them to learn from the Osun State governorship by hanging around after voting to ensure that their votes count. A former Deputy Governor of the state, Chief Yomi Awoniyi while addressing the rally urged the people to end the suffering they are going through at the hands of the APC government in the state by voting for PDP candidates in the coming elections. Awoniyi party members canvass votes for all the candidates of the party, saying that the APC should be stopped from doing further damage to the country. The state PDP woman leader, Olori Margaret Orebiyi, and a former state chairman of the party, Alhaji Hassan Salawu, while addressing the rally called for total support for all the candidates. Hon. T.J. Yusuf and Hon. T.J. Faniyi who spoke on behalf of national assembly candidates of the party in the senatorial district promised to ensure quality representation if elected. Yusuf is the party’s senatorial candidate for Kogi West while Faniyi is the party’s House of Representatives Candidate for Yagba federal constituency while Olaiya Michael Olobatoke is the candidate for Ijumu/Kabba-Bunu federal constituency, Hon. Shaba Ibrahim is the House of Representatives candidate for the Lokoja/Koto federal constituency. Both Yusuf and Faniyi also promised to deliver on their election promises and make sure that the people enjoy democratic dividends. The highlight of the rally was the presentation of the party’s flag to all national and house of assembly candidates of the party.