From Judex Okoro, Calabar Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Cross River on Wednesday began the distribution of sensitive materials for Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly (NASS) elections to the 18 local government areas of the state. Meanwhile, the security agencies in the state have promised to be fair and professional in the discharge of their election duties. Items distributed at the state’s office of the commission are the Bimodal Voter Accreditation (BVAS), the result sheets as well as the ballot papers from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The distribution was witnessed by all security agencies including the paramilitary; Police, Army, NSCDC, Immigration, FRSC and the DSS. The political parties, who are participating in the polls, also had their representatives present during the distribution as well as the Civil Society Organisations (CSOs). Speaking at the distribution exercise, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Prof. Gabriel Yomere, said the decision to invite all stakeholders to witness the distribution was for anybody not to be under the impression of any wrongdoing. The REC said that the 3281 BVAS have been configured according to the polling unit where they will be used. “They have also been charged to last for 48 hours, so we don’t envisage any problem of power as regards the usage of the BVAS. “As for the result sheets, they remained intact the way they were brought from where they came from,” he stated. Speaking on behalf of other security agencies, the Commissioner of Police in charge of elections in the state, Kabiru Ibrahim, said all the flash points in the state would be closely policed. According to him, “we will be fair and professional in our duties and we implore all to be orderly during the process as all necessary security protection will be given to all.” Checks by Daily Sun showed that 295 candidates would participate in the general elections scheduled for February 25 and March 11 in Cross River. The candidates would jostle for the 36 elective positions which include, governor, three Senate seats, seven House of Representatives seats and 25 seats in the State House of Assembly. Further checks showed that 11 candidates would contest for the governorship seat, 28 candidates for the Senate, 69 for the House of Representatives and 187 candidates for the State House of Assembly. It was learnt that only 12 political parties out of the 17 registered parties fielded candidates in Cross River.