From Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja  Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has charged security agencies to beef up security around offices and facilities of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The PDP, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, said there were reports about alleged plots by the All Progressives Congress (APC) interests to launch attacks on INEC facilities. The opposition party also urged President Muhammadu Buhari to put measures in place to ensure the elections are free, fair, transparent and credible, in line with his assurances to Nigerians and the international community. “It would be recalled that our party had earlier alerted of series of designs by some frustrated and violence-inclined APC governors and the Tinubu/Shettima campaign to cause widespread crisis, truncate the elections, subvert our democracy and impose an undemocratic situation on our country, just because the APC has been rejected by Nigerians. “Information available to our party indicates that the APC interests which are bent at scuttling the elections to avoid a humiliating defeat are allegedly mobilising thugs to launch fresh attacks on INEC offices and its facilities where BVAS machines are located.   “Some prominent APC leaders, including certain APC governors, having failed in their designs to have the elections postponed and having also been resisted in their plot to use their orchestrated cash scarcity to destabilise the nation, are now allegedly plotting to cripple INEC’s ability to conduct the elections by destroying the BVAS machines. “These APC leaders and their apologists have evidently revealed themselves as clear and present threat not only to the electoral process but also to our corporate existence as a nation and must be resisted by all. “The PDP, therefore, charges the security agencies to take all necessary steps to provide adequate protection for INEC facilities, equipment and personnel before, during and after the elections.  “We also call on President Buhari to put all measures in place for free, fair, transparent and credible elections in keeping with his assurances to Nigerians and the international community. “The PDP urges Nigerians to remain vigilant in resisting the APC and the Tinubu/Shettima presidential campaign in their vicious plot to cause crisis, derail our democracy and force an unconstitutional situation of interim national government on our nation. “The APC and the Tinubu/Shettima campaign must accept the fact that Nigerians will never be deterred from their resolve to vote in PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, to rebuild our nation from the disastrous misrule of the APC.”