• Says those likely to lose polls behind ‘dangerous’ rumour  From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja  The Presidency has warned Nigerians to desist from joking about purported plans by the Muhammadu Buhari administration to impose an interim government on the country, assuring that the general elections scheduled for February 25th and March 11th will hold.  According to a statement by Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, there is absolutely no truth to the claim, assuring there will be no truncation of democracy that Buhari has helped to keep alive not only in Nigeria, West Africa but throughout the continent. It described the rumour as another dangerous dimension by people who are afraid that they may lose their elections. “Let us clearly, specifically and emphatically state that there is absolutely no truth to the claim that President Muhammadu Buhari is working towards an interim government or even worse, the truncation of democracy- democracy that he has helped to keep alive not only here at home, in West Africa but throughout the continent. The talk of interim government and truncation of democracy is way off the mark. Those who peddle it stand to gain nothing- nothing at all -but the creation of panic and the incitement of the public against the federal government. “It is another dangerous dimension by people who are afraid that they may lose their elections,” he said. He reiterated that Buhari is working for his party’s candidate, Tinubu’s victory at the polls.  “Finally, to state that the President clearly has a favoured successor in Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is not in doubt. The fact that Tinubu has been opposed to the speed and timing of the Naira swap timetable does not mean he is against the idea of Nigeria becoming a cashless society. Of course, Tinubu does support a cashless society: for he is a man of the future. What should be made crystal clear to the doubters and the speculators and the untruth-tellers is that in no way was the naira swap “engineered” to keep the President in office beyond May 29. Nothing could be further from the truth. The President looks forward to handing over the reins of power to his elected successor. This will happen on May 29, 2023 as the Constitution requires it,” he said.