From Desmond Mgboh, Kano  The New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP)N has issued a 24 hour ultimatum to the Nigeria police in Kano to release its supporters, failure of which it will embark on a state – wide protest to press for their release. The party, during a press conference attended by its key stakeholders on Sunday, alleged that the police were engaged in indiscriminate arrest, unlawful detention and frame up of its members  while adding that over a hundred of them from across the state are in their custody. Speaking for the party, Dr Abdullahi Baffa Bichi, alleged that the police were working with the Attorney General of the state to frame charges of attempted murder on theise members, even as he regretted that the police have refused to act on a number of court orders that are against the ruling party in the state Bichi,  who is the NNPP senatorial candidate for Kano North, arged further that while their complaints against the ruling party are ignored by DPOs  spurious complaints by the APC are treated with promptness. He. therefore. warned that their love for peace and respect for the law should not be taken for granted even as he threatened to withdraw their assent to the peace accord in the state. He called on President Muhammadu Buhari, the Inspector General of Police, the Minister of Police Affairs and the Police Service Commission to intervene and save the situation. However, Kano State Police Commissioner, Dauda Mamman haa dismissed the party’s allegations, saying they are untrue and misleading. Speaking to Daily Sun in his office, he explained that the arrest of dangerous political thugs were carried out across the parties in the state based on a threat analysis of dangerous elements that could undermine a peaceful electoral process in the state. He said that he had received similar complaints from the All Progressives Congress(APC) in the state, adding however that his officers would not be deterred by such complaints but would strive hard to ensure a peaceful exercise in the state.