•  Says there should be no riots, violence after announcement of election results Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has pledged to continue to act with neutrality and allow the rule of law take precedence over political expediency as far as the 2023 elections are concerned. He also said he has demonstrated that with the off-circle elections in Edo, Ondo, Anambra, Ekiti and Osun states whereby his administration allowed Nigerians to decide who should govern them, adding  that his government was committed to the legacy till the last day of his administration. Buhari spoke during the signing of the second peace accord for the 2023 elections in Abuja, yesterday. At the exercise attended by the presidential candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu; the the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi and 15 others, Buhari thanked the Chairman of the National Peace Committee, General Abdulsalami  Abubakar, and all members for their commitment and sacrifices to support peaceful elections in Nigeria. Buhari further said that in anticipation of the elections, back in September 2022, Abubakar asked him to deliver a goodwill message in support of issue-based and peaceful campaigns and political rallies devoid of insults and personal attacks. He said the situation is at the very heart of his personal belief and conviction; that Nigerians need to dwell more on issues that are fundamental to the heart of Nigerians. “Despite having no financial support from the government, the Peace Committee has remained steadfast, working with relevant agencies to provide moral compass and serve as an independent agency for alternative dispute resolution on the electoral process. I commend the Committee’s commitment and loyalty not only to the electoral process but to peace generally in Nigeria. “I am aware of the deep concerns that have been raised about the conduct of the 2023 general elections and the outcomes they may throw up. However, since my assumption into office, my government has worked so hard to ensure that we pass on a legacy of free, fair, credible, safe, and peaceful elections.” Buhari reassured INEC, the security agencies and all relevant institutions saddled with the conducting the elections of his administration’s continuous support and asked them to be firm and courageous, and abide by the laws and constitutional provisions in conducting the elections. “We must constantly improve our electoral process using technology and all the positive elements it brings to consolidate the integrity of the elections. “I implore the candidates contesting in these elections at all levels to respect the choice of voters and accept the result of the elections as announced by INEC, the agency empowered by law to do so. Any aggrieved candidate should resort to the established judicial processes, and we must have the confidence to trust our legal systems. I once again ask the candidates to abide by the spirit and letter of the Accord they have signed unto today. “As your president, I am reminding all Nigerians, this is the only country we have, and we must do everything to keep it safe, united and peaceful. There should be no riots or acts of violence after the announcement of the election results. All grievances, personal or institutional, should be channeled to the relevant courts. “Once again, I want to thank the Chairman and members of the National Peace Committee. Your committee has carved a niche for itself not only in the hearts of Nigerians but at the very centre of the electoral process.”  In his remarks, Abubakar said on September 29, 2022, the National Peace Committee organized the first signing of the National Peace Accord committing the candidates to engage in issue-based campaigns. He also said the Committee monitored the compliance of the accord by politicians and recorded some of the infractions that were a thing of concern. “There was lack of compliance by the major political parties. Forty-four percent of the violations were carried out by the spokespersons of the political parties; twenty-six percent by party members; nineteen percent by the presidential candidates themselves; eleven percent by hardcore supporters and four percent by Chairmen of the parties. “Additionally, this January alone, a lot of violence has occurred, with at least 15 abductions (including one Police Officer) and at least, 30 killings (including 11 security personnel) and there were at least six attacks at political campaign rallies… “Now that the elections are only a few hours away, we are here to witness the second signing of the National Peace Accord to commit the presidential candidates and their party chairmen to accept the outcome of the elections as long as it is adjudged to be free, fair, and credible, and to seek legitimate and peaceful means of addressing any concern that may arise thereafter. “In this regard, I want to encourage political parties to respect that only the INEC has the constitutional authority to announce the results, and to ensure that their supporters refrain from disseminating fake news, misinformation, disinformation and avoid statements that will incite violence after the results of the elections have been announced. “Similarly, I urge all political parties, presidential candidates, and indeed all Nigerians, to avoid the temptation of the use of polls that are not credible to cause confusion in the polity. On behalf of the National Peace Committee, I urge all stakeholders to understand that this event has the potential of setting a positive trajectory in our journey to a peaceful and a more democratized Nigeria,” Abubakar said. Abubakar also called on political actors, key stakeholders, and Nigerians in general to support a peaceful transition, promote the ideals of peace and a violent free post-election period. Also speaking, former president, Goodluck Jonathan, said there was no doubt that the peace accord strategy has proven to consolidate the effort of statutory structures like INEC in conducting peaceful and credible elections. “Today’s accord commits all the presidential candidates, chairmen and members of the political parties to accept the outcome of the elections, as long as it is adjudged to be free, fair and credible. “In the build up to the 2015 general elections, myself and my successor, His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, signed a similar accord, committing ourselves to free, fair, credible and peaceful elections. “We also made it very clear in the second Peace Accord that we would abide by the outcome of the votes. I believed that was the way to strengthen our democracy, stave off looming violence and bring peace to our nation.”  Jonathan also said there was no better time to make the commitment than now, given the considerable levels of tension and apprehension so far experienced, in the build-up to the elections. “This is the time for the candidates and party leaders to demonstrate goodwill and impress It on their cadres and followers that election is not war. Our country needs a stable and reliable democracy to be able to adequately address its challenges and provide the desired leadership that meets the expectations of our teeming populace. “The world looks up to us to get our democracy right and become a force to be reckoned with in the leadership recruitment and governance process. We need peaceful elections to give democracy a boost on the continent, especially in our sub-region where civil rule is threatened by a wave of unconstitutional change of government. “I, therefore, call on all the presidential candidates, the party chairmen and members of all the political parties, to please respect the voice of Nigerians and embrace the politics of peace. “We must continue to work tirelessly in your various capacities to ensure that peace reigns supreme during this election. “At this juncture, I take this opportunity to charge the election management body, INEC, to do its very best to ensure that the elections are free, fair and credible. Whenever doubts build up in the minds of the citizens pertaining to the credibility of elections, it creates a situation that could lead to crises and conflicts. “In the same vein, I urge the Police and other security agencies involved in managing security during the polls not to compromise themselves in the course of carrying out their duties, now, during and after elections. When the people have confidence in the election umpire and the police operatives that secure the polling processes, elections will largely be peaceful and credible,” Jonathan also said. Convener of the National Peace Committee, Bishop Matthew Hassan Kukah, said the growing international interest in the nation’s elections is a source of great encouragement, a pointer to how much hope has been reposed in Nigeria. “We have five former African Heads of State here and the Secretary General of the Commonwealth. We thank Your Excellencies and all the Members of the International Observer Missions. Our political actors need this pressure to compel our political actors to raise the moral tempo of politics and to improve the quality of the lives of our people,” Kukah said.