From Okwe Obi, Abuja  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Barely 23 days to general poll, standard bearer of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), Chekwas Okorie, has unveiled Hadiza Mohammed, as his vice presidential candidate.  Okorie, while addressing party faithful yesterday in Abuja, also introduced Jonathan Elendu as the director general of the presidential campaign organization. He said: “Shortly after the Convention, I consulted with the National Working Committee (NWC) where it was unanimously agreed that no person was better suited to pair with me on the Presidential Ticket as Vice Presidential Candidate than Hajia Hadiza Mohammed whose rich and impeccable profile has just been read to this august audience. “It is also my singular pleasure to unveil at this occasion the Director General of our Presidential Campaign Organization who prefers to be referred to as simply Jonathan Elendu.” He said the crisis in the party had been resolved with the confirmation of Edozie Njoku, as the authentic chairman of the party by the court. “It is public knowledge that on 9th May, 2022, the Supreme Court of Nigeria corrected a judgment it had delivered on 14th October, 2021, which contained a slip of both the pen and the tongue, in erroneously referring to the former National Chairman of the Party, Chief Victor Oye as National Chairman instead of Chief Edozie Njoku, the authentic and duly elected National Chairman of the Party whose purported removal by a Jigawa High Court was set aside by both the Court of Appeal in Kano and the Supreme Court as not justiciable.  “This judgment was duly served on INEC and other parties to the suit by an Executive Bailiff of the Supreme Court of Nigeria,” he claimed. Speaking on the chances of the party in the election, he said: “APGA will surprise its traducers by the outcome of its accomplishments in the forthcoming elections by the special grace of God. Again, it is written that the last shall be the first.” In her acceptance speech, Mohammed said the APGA administration would revamp the agricultural sector, take care of women and tackle insecurity. She said: “The role of women in Nation Building. A critical reference and focus on Agriculture. Success, challenges and Prospects as we preach diversification of the Nigerian economy. I am a Woman and I represent millions of Nigerian Women today.  “Women are the set of human beings that belongs to the female gender. They play the role of mothers, caretakers in family affairs, farmers, educators, entrepreneurs, teachers, e.t.c.  “It is historic that women play significant roles in societal development and ensure the stability, progress, and long-term development of nations.  “Women also play the role of decision-makers in homes. Globally, women contribute immensely to agricultural development, comprising about 43% of the world’s agricultural labor force.  “In some countries, the number of women involved in the agricultural labor force increases to over 70%.  “Available records indicate that in Africa alone, 80% of agricultural production comes from small farmers, most of whom are rural women.  “It is noteworthy that agriculture is the bedrock of national development as the best approach to food security, poverty reduction, job creation, and economic stability.  “At home, women, notably mothers, play the role in decision-making about family meal planning and diet. Women also initiate and preserve the nutritional and healthcare programs of children at home.  “In addition, women are not only caring for their children at home but are also the primary caretakers of both children and elders in every country of the world. “International studies indicate that women lead in finding solutions to the problems occasioned by a change of political and economic organizations in countries, thereby helping the family adjust to new realities and challenges. “Indeed, women are the initiators who play important role in facilitating changes in family life.”