…Says I’m impressed, happy over turnout From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye (Abuja) and Agaju Madugba (Katsina) President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday cast his vote at the Sarkin Yar’Adua A Ward polling unit, Babangida Tone area of his Daura country home. Accompanied by his wife, Aisha, and two daughters, Buhari told reporters that, “APC will win the elections, from here (Daura) to Lagos, Insha Allah.” He also urged the electorate to vote the only APC governorship candidate in the country (Adamawa State) during next Saturday’s governorship polls. In an apparent move to convince Nigerians that he has always supported the APC presidential candidate, Asiwaju Ahmed  Bola Tinubu, Buhari displayed his thumb printed ballot paper, showing clearly that he voted for APC. The president assured that he had always supported the candidature of Tinubu, and the show of his ballot paper to the media and the public further showed his commitment to the party and the national leader. His words: “I am very impressed because I have seen how the people turned up. I am very impressed and very happy. Well, the candidate I voted for I have already mentioned him in many states in Nasarawa, Katsina and Sokoto. “All over the places I mentioned my favourite candidate, Asiwaju Tinubu, and I believe my constituency will elect him 100 per cent.’’ President Buhari advised Nigerians to ensure that their rights to vote were always respected. “Nigerians should make sure that they are respected; that means that the candidate they want to vote for they are allowed to vote for him. “It is a pity there is only one female candidate from Adamawa State, so the electorate should kindly follow our party,’’ he added. Asked how he felt that it was the first time since 2003 that he was not on the ballot paper, the president said: “It is very exciting. I look at those who are competing and some of them are so agitated and they didn’t know that I tried three times and ended up in the Supreme Court three times. “The fourth time I said ‘God dey’ and God sent technology, Permanent Voters Card, so no fraudulent person can claim anything.’’ Governor Aminu Bello Masari, also cast his vote at the Masari Ward A polling unit,  in front of his house in Kafur, Kafur Local Government Area at 12.15 pm. The governor described the election as peaceful, noting that “many of us governors and National Assembly members would be voting for the last time in our current positions. “I appeal to people to vote peacefully and wisely; vote for responsible, futuristic leadership because the future is what holds for our younger generation. “The election as you can see has been peaceful so far in my area.”