From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja Wife of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Oluremi Tinubu, has said that the emergence of her husband, Bola Tinubu and his running mate, Kashim Shettima, will be the best option for Nigerian women. She spoke at APC pre-election strategic meeting with Zonal, state and Local Government women leaders held in Abuja on Friday.Oluremi said that the cash crunch in the country has rubbished the insinuations that the ruling party’s presidential candidate is mobilising the crowd to campaign rallies with money. “This is our time. The popular saying, what a man can do, a woman too can do better. This is the decade for women. From the town hall meetings we had, I discovered that, when we wanted to go for rallies, they (women) will insist they want to go for women meeting. “This is the time for women to take control again. Take control of our homes so that we can build our homes and nation. Tinubu/Shetimma ticket is your best option. My husband has not contested election since 2003. This year, it will be 20 years, so he did not just wake up and say it is my turn. “You can serve other people for 20 years and make sure they excel. I don’t believe you can’t win your own place. The Bible said, when you build, you should inhabit, when you sow, you should be the first partner. It depends on how long you have invested. “They told us, we are buying people to come to rallies. God now said, what I am going to do, I can shut the heavens, so there is no money and you will see my glory. Are we not seeing God’s glory? You all be patient. Be patient and go and vote. When you vote, shine your eyes and monitor until they count your votes,” she advised. On her own, Deputy Woman leader, Hajiya Zainab Ibrahim, urged Nigerian women to vote for the APC presidential candidate, if they don’t want to look like church rat out of power. “PDP lost power and within four years they were looking like church rat. We don’t want to be like church rats by losing this election. We must do everything possible to win this election. Without victory there will be no campaign building, without victory, nothing for us. It is only the party that will be in existence,” she noted.