From Gyang Bere, Jos The Presidential Candidate of Accord Party, Prof. Christopher Imumolen said his administration will build a digital economy to address corruption and prevailing security challenges confronting Nigeria if elected into power in 2023. He noted that Nigeria need an industrial revolution with a responsive social welfare to fight poverty in the country where over 133 million Nigerians live below the poverty line.  Prof. Imumolen disclosed this during the presentation of his manifesto and political philosophy on Tuesday at a parley organized by the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) Kuru. He lamented that Nigeria has lost billions of naira to payment of ransom due to banditary activities and unfriendly economic policies put in place by the Federal Government. The 39-year-old Prof. Imumolen said he is into the presidential race to give Nigerian youths a strong voice to make the needed change for the greater good of the country. “We need Nigerians who have make a mark in the private sector to create the necessary change in the political landscape to drive the country’s economy. “Nigerians need a father as a President not by age but some one who has the knowledge and understand the feelings and pains of Nigeria. We will build digital economy to fight insecurity and corruption.  “Based on the records, we have about 54,000 abandoned projects in Nigeria an there is about 4,000 ilegal routes into Nigeria and these issues would be addressed in the interest of development of our country.” He stated. He noted that his administration will end the era of oil subsidy which was condition to perpetrate corruption and rob Nigerians of their resources. “If Nigeria must move forward as a country, we need men with values who have fresh ideas.We have gotten to a point in Nigeria where we must flush out old politicians with no ideas. “Most of the politicians have been there when we were young, now we are old and we are still seeing them in the system, they are irrelevant. Nigerians should shun old politicians on 25 of February when we will be casting our votes, Nigerians should shun old parties who have not delivered on their Manifesto.” He stated. The Director General National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru, Prof. Ayo Mototayo, represented by the Director of Studies, Prof. Funmi Para-Mallam described Imumolen as a beacon of Nigerian youths. The DG salute the courage of Prof Imumolen for joining the presidential race and urged politicians to take politics as service to God and humanity.