From Molly Kilete, Abuja Ahead of the upcoming General Elections, the Police Force Headquarters in Abuja, said it has trained 612  personnel to effectively curb incidences of electoral violence, kidnapping, cultism ,and other violent crimes. The trainings  which held in the six geopolitical zones of the country, is aimed at equipping police personnel with  the vibrant tactics to identify, and decimate threats to election security management.  The IGP in his address at the occasion, assured that the training, and retraining of police personnel for election security management, and professionalism, in all areas of modern policing, would be a continuous project even after the 2023 general elections. Force Publlic Relations Officer (FPRO), CSP  Olumiyiwa Adejobi,  said: “The Nigeria Police Force has concluded the training of 612 officers from across the six geo-political  zones on effective strategies for combatting cultism, kidnapping, and electoral violence in the country ahead of the 2023 general elections. The training which held at 6 different venue in each of the 6 geo-political zones was organized by the force in  collaboration with Wan Diyos Limited, a consulting firm, and had renowned members of the academia as well as a retired Deputy Inspector-General of Police, DIG Hashimu Ibrahim Argungu (Rtd.) as resource persons. “The training workshop which held between Saturday 7th January and Wednesday 18th January, 2023, probed historical antecedents as well as contemporary issues and solutions to the challenges of cultism, kidnapping, and electoral violence. The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, emphasized that the training is germane in light of the upcoming general elections,to prepare officers to train their men on vibrant tactics to identify and decimate threats to election security management. “The IGP also assured that the training and retraining of police personnel for election security management and professionalism, in all areas of modern policing, will be a continuous project even after the 2023 general elections. The IGP charged the trainees to deploy the expertise gained from the workshop towards improved management of cultism, kidnapping, and election related violence even as he directed them to ensure the knowledge cascades to other officers and men serving in their respective stations/units for a wholistic approach to election security management during the 2023 general elections for free, fair, credible and acceptable elections”.