From Olanrewaju Lawal,Birnin Kebbi Kebbi State Governor and the Chairman, APC Progressives Governors’ Forum, Sen. Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, CON, has assured hundreds of women and youths in Dakingari, headquarters of Suru Local Government that his administration would sustain its empowerment programmes to assist them. Bagudu gave the assurance in Dakingari during the APC campaign rally on Friday evening. He said youths particularly women play significant role in politics and development of the society. ” I have always been saying, the government and our party will continue to strive to render assistance to women,” he said. The governor commended the women leader of Suru Local Government and youths groups that converged in their large numbers to show support for APC candidates at the venue. He charged them to vote for APC Presidential candidate and his running mate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Kashim Shatima, Kebbi APC gubernatorial candidate, Kauran Gwandu and all APC candidates. ” With less than one week to the election, I ask you to vote Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Kashim Shatima, Kauran Gwandu and all APC candidates. ” Remember that APC government has performed well and you bear witness to that , the President, 21 State Governors are all under the fold of APC. ” A good democracy is one that people remain solidly behind the government for dividends of democracy to continue to come to you,” he said. Addressing the mammoth crowd of APC supporters, the gubernatorial candidate of the party, Dr. Nasir Idris, Kauran Gwandu appreciated them for their unprecedented support. The large crowd, according to him, was an indication that the people of Dakingari were largely for APC. He reminded them of the efforts of both former Governor of Kebbi State, Alhaji Saidu Nasamu Dakingari, DG campaign Council who is from the area and the incumbent Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu to develop the area . Kauran Gwandu assured the youths that, if elected, he would continue to support agricultural production so that the youths could be gainfully employed and also empower women to go into bussiness ventures. In his address at the event, the Director General, Campaign Council of the party, Alhaji Saidu Nasamu Dakingari, former Governor of Kebbi State urged the youths to continue to embrace APC to enable the area to continue to reap abundant dividends of democracy. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. He told the gathering that both Bagudo and Suru Local Government Areas had benefited a lot from government particularly on roads, agriculture and other infrastructural developments, therefore there is the need for continuation. ” This area is the most, if not one of the topmost rice producing areas in the state courtesy of the support from government, so continue to be loyal and supportive to APC- led administration,” he urged.