By Lukman Olabiyi  Please enable JavaScript Mrs Uchenna Jenna Onwukwe, widow of Mr Chidi Onwukwe, who was allegedly  murdered in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, in the year 2021, has given  a graphic details on how her   husband was killed . The widow, while testifying before the Rivers State High Court, Port Harcourt, said  her husband was stabbed severally and shot. Uchenna, told the court, that she saw her  husband’s body  with marks of  injuries inflicted on him by his  killers. Samuel Onwukwe, Promise George, and Blessed Onyekachi Nathan, are being prosecuted in a charge PHC/667/CR/2022, over the murder of Chidi, in Port Harcourt, but they  pleaded not guilty to the charge. The court had adjourned to hear the bail application of the three suspects on the 15th, 16th of December, and 27th January, just after they were remanded in the Correctional Centre. But when the court resumed hearing on Friday, 27th, the bail application could not be taken, because one of the counsels has not responded to the bail application. However, the court ordered the prosecution to open its’ case against the defendants, following the court’s order,  the prosecuting  counsel, Essien Edet, called the widow of the deceased as first witness to testified. In her testimony, the widow told the court that  her husband’s killers, used her kitchen knife in carrying out the act. She narrated: “On  January 27,  2021, I received a phone call from one Amarachi Nduagwu, that my  husband, Mr. Chidi John Onwukwe, has been stabbed to death.  “When I got the call, I set out to  Port Harcourt. On getting to my address in Port Harcourt. I met Samuel Onwukwe(1st defendant), who lives with my husband. When he saw me, he welcomed me with smile on his face. I became confused whether the call was a prank      “I entered the house, but  I did not see my husband. I  asked Mr. Samuel, where was my husband ,and he answered that he has been deposited at the military hospital’s mortuary.     “I went to the guest room, where Samuel said my husband slept that fateful night. On entering the room, I noticed that the room was totally mopped and cleaned.     “I saw a knife on the table, the knife was also clean. The knife was my kitchen knife. I asked Samuel ,who kept the knife on the table. He said it was the robbers that took the knife from my kitchen and left it at the place. Samuel Onwukwe, said it was the knife his killers  used to stab him.      “I called the policemen that came with us from Elelenwo, and showed them the knife. They took the knife. I requested to see the corpse, they took me to military hospital.     “I saw his body with several marks of injuries. The mortuary attendant, said he was not only stabbed,but that he was  shot. They brought out some bullets and gave to the police.”      Justice Sylvester Popnen has fixed further hearing in the case to February  10th,16th, and 17th ,2023.