From Gyang Bere, Jos The Director General of Industrial Training Fund (ITF), Sir Joseph Ari has been conferred with an Award of Excellence in Leadership and Human Capital Development from the Correspondents’ Chapel, NUJ, Plateau State Council. Ari, who received the Award, which was presented to him on Monday by Chairman of the Correspondents’ Chapel, Gyang Bere at the NUJ Press Centre Jos, expressed delight that the Award would spur him to do more for God and humanity. “I feel greatly honoured and excited because the Award was presented by an important segment of the media, a profession I practised for several decades and consider my primary constituency. I am especially thrilled that the awarding body, the Correspondents’ Chapel, has worked closely with me since I assumed duty as the Director-General/Chief Executive of the Industrial Training Fund. “I consider this Award, which comes on the heels of being named the Year 2022 Public Service Person by the Leadership Newspaper and Plateau Man of the Year by COA Media as an endorsement and approval of my performance in office by a segment of the society that has first-hand knowledge and appreciation of what I have achieved in the ITF since 2016. “I must stress that our achievements, which provided the basis for this award, could not have been possible without your willing assistance, as you have assisted in no small measure to carry our campaign for Nigerians to embrace skills acquisition as a real alternative to white-collar jobs to all homes in the nooks and crannies of our dear country, Nigeria.” He stated. Ari said the inception of the current Management of the ITF in 2016 birthed the reviewed vision for mandate actualisation which threw up strategies with short, medium and long-term goals that propelled the Fund to an upward mobile organisation that address the fundamentals of Nigerian state with respect to wealth creation. He said further, “Our commitment to equipping Nigerians with technical skills for employability and entrepreneurship has never wavered and our emphasis on skills acquisition has been premised on our firm belief that it remains the most sustainable solution to increasing poverty and unemployment, and the catalyst to economic growth and development.” Chairman of the Correspondents’ Chapel, NUJ, Plateau Council, Gyang Bere explained that the Award was conceived by the entire members of the chapel based on the leadership courage exhibited by the Director General and provision of skills to indigent Nigerians. “We are aware of the intervention programmes introduced and implemented by your administration, particularly the home-grown plan that expanded existing skills acquisition programmes and new initiatives leading to the training and empowerment of over 500,000 Nigerians in four years that are today earning sustainable livelihoods as paid employers or entrepreneurs across the country. “Indeed, you have provided exemplary leadership, foster collaboration and build spirited team and friendship across board that has accelerated growth and development of ITF under your watch. It is heart-warming to note that your indelible footprints have endeared your admirars to you while your detractors are left with no choice than to sing your success story.” He encouraged the Director General to continue with the strategy of driving Nigeria out of poverty and fight against unemployment through the provision of skills to Nigerians.