From Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa Leadership of Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) worldwide has commended the Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, over his achievements in the last three years in office, describing him as a symbol of hope for the youths and the people of Ijaw nation. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. According to the IYC, despite the challenges facing governance and the governed in the region, the Bayelsa State governor has shown capacity in the area of sustainable peace, equitable infrastructural projects and youths empowerment. The IYC, through its national spokesman, Ebilade Ekerefe, said the policy of inclusion through the training and passing out of youths as members of the Bayelsa State Community Safety Corps is a step in the right direction as this will assist security agencies the area of intelligent gathering that will enhance protection of lives and properties in the state. Ekerefe also described the commissioning of the Bayelsa Health Insurance Administrative Building completed by the Diri administration as commendable. He said with the commissioning of the world-class building by Ifeanyi Okowa, Delta State governor, Bayelsans will have access to quick and affordable health care. “We’ve also witnessed that the Diri’s administration has built a psychiatric and mental hospital and rehabilitation centre in Ogbia and upgraded the school of nursing, school of midwifery science in Tombia to a collegial system. We believe strongly that no society can grow and become productive when the health care system is not given a priority by the government and seeing the Diri-led administration leading in this direction gives the people of the state hope. “On infrastructure, we commend the governor for his continuity agenda by completing the projects conceived by his predecessor; most especially the Bayelsa transport terminal, the Sagbama-Ekeremor road and the ongoing Yenagoa-Oporoma, these projects are historic and they will put the state on a part of irreversible development. “As council, we are proud of him for his disposition towards the Ijaw national interest and shall continue to partner his administration for a more prosperous and developed Ijaw nation we all clamour for.”