Pledge support for LP candidate Women from Isiala Ngwa on Wednesday pledged massive support for the Abia State governorship candidate of Labour Party (LP), Dr. Alex Otti. The women made the pledge at a reception in honour of Mrs. Priscilla Chidinma Otti They extolled Dr. Otti’s leadership qualities and sent their goodwill to him through his wife, for the contributions he has made in the development of their communities even while not in government.  They were optimistic that he would do much more as a governor and called on Mrs. Otti, as the future First Lady, to ensure that the women of Isiala Ngwa North Local Government and, indeed, Abia State are given a pride of place and prominence in the LP government, when her husband takes office on May 29, 2023. Mrs Otti expressed happiness at the massive reception accorded her and her entourage. She thanked the women for their role during the local government tour of their area by the Alex Otti Campaign Organisation, stating that their large turnout contributed immensely to the success of the tour.  She promised to ensure that the women’s requests for support in their farming activities and education of the female child are made part of the LP government’s priority programme. she told the women that Dr. Otti has set up an empowerment programme, called the Labour Party Cooperatives, to assist small and medium entrepreneurs (SMEs), particularly women and youths, to further their businesses, trades and crafts. She enjoined the women to ensure they register in their area so as to benefit in the scheme which promises to provide interest-free loans to beneficiaries. At Umuomaikwu, Nsulu and Umuoleke, Uratta, where the reception held, Mrs. Otti told the women of a plan by her husband to resuscitate the famous Nsulu Games Village and also the establishment of an entertainment village, to attract the Nollywood industry back to Abia, where it started. The women were educated on the right way to monitor and vote on election day. The Labour Party House of assembly candidate for Isiala Ngwa North State Constituency, Ambassador Innocent Uruakpa, who joined the women to receive Mrs. Otti reaffirmed the unalloyed support of the people of Isiala Ngwa North to Dr. Otti’s candidacy, stressing that Labour Party has worked tirelessly to gain the support of the masses and the fruit of their labour shall manifest at the polls.