From Joseph Obukata, Warri Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Ologbotsere Descendants headed by Chief Ayirimi Emami, has endorsed the All Progressive Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for president, urging the Itsekiri nation to rally around him as a son of the soul. The endorsement was made at an enlarged meeting of the Ologbotsere Descendants tagged ‘prayer day’ held at the Warri residence of Ologbotsere of Warri Kingdom, Chief Ayirimi Emami on Sunday. Addressing the people shortly after the traditional prayer rites for the success of the election, Chief Emami urged the Itsekiri sons and daughters to give Tinubu their vote comes next week Saturday presidential election, saying that Tinubu would better the lot of the Itsekiri nation than anyone else in the ballot. He said; “We’re here today to talk to our ancestors like others are praying today for the success of the presidential election. Everybody has their customs and traditions. The purpose of the meeting today is to urged all sons and daughters of Itsekiri nation to come out en mass on February 25th, 2023 and  vote for one of their own, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu for president. He is part of us, he is our inlaw and our own. He has been with us so we have no reason to go and vote for any other person. The Ologbotsere of Warri, the Chief Messenger has spoken. That’s my message and that’s the reason we are seated here today. I greet you all”. Speaking earlier in an interview on the sidelines of the meeting, Sir Amorighoye Sunny Mene, the Olori-Ebi of Uwangue family and member of the Contact and Mobilization Committee of Tinubu/Shettima Grassroot Campaign Council, who spoke on behalf of the Ologbotsere Descendants, said that the prayers are being held allover the country to ensure Tinubu win the election on Saturday next week. “Today is a very special day being 19 February 2023, the last Sunday before the general elections. Special prayers are being offered allover the country for the success of the general elections. Christians are praying and Muslims are also praying and the head of the Ologbotsere family, Chief Ayiri Emami has also deem it necessary to offer special prayers for the success of the general elections and most particularly for the success of the candidate of the APC for the general election, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Senator Shettima. “For us Itsekiri people, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is one of us so we are urging all Itsekiris worldwide to support his candidacy not only because he is one of us but he has the track record, he has performed, he has been tested and proven to be a man of vision, man of capacity and a man we know if given the opportunity will take Nigeria to the next level. “We know him. He is not a stranger to Nigeria. He is a unifier, when he was governor of Lagos state he had people across the country including non lagosians. He had Urhobo in his cabinet and other ethnic nationalities and that’s goes to show that he is a unifier. He wants to bring anybody together”. He said that Tinubu has always identified with the common-man since the early days of the country’s nascent democracy hence he was quick to also identified with the ordinary Nigerians over the scarcity of the Naira notes. “He was an advocate for democracy, when democracy was threatened in Nigeria he championed the cause for democracy. Today even in the face of scarce naira and everything, he is also championing the cause of the common-man. He has identified with the people across Nigeria. Even people who are struggling to survive Bola Ahmed has now taken side with them to say he identified with their suffering and challenges particularly now and he is asking that the right thing be done. That’s why we are using this opportunity to call on all Nigerians that Bola Ahmed Tinubu is the right person to support.  Speaking in the same vien, Prince Yemi Emiko, Coordinator APC Campaign Council for Delta South, said that he was elated when he was told of the prayers session by the Ologbotsere Descendants and subsequent moves to endorse his presidential candidacy hence he decided to come around to witness the event. Emiko said that Tinubu has paid his due to rule the country having been tested and proven his mark in governance, urging the Itsekiri people to give him the maximum support to emerge as winner in the next Saturday presidential election. “We’re excited that this is happening in Warri today and by the grace of God, Bola Ahmed Tinubu will emerge as president. And let me say this, Tinubu is a man who is not just a team player but a team builder. He understands the game and play the game very well. He is also a good coach, he can coach and build new players in a very exciting manner to make the team more vibrant”, Emiko added.