From Gyang Bere, Jos Deputy Chairman Senate Committee on Defence and Senator Representing Plateau North, Istifanus Gyang has described the 2023 elections as a destiny moment for Nigerians to elect developmental and transformational leaders who will tackle the current challenges confronting the nation. He urged Nigerians to take advantage of the election and urged their PVCs wisely and usher in competent and credible leaders who have empathy for the people. Senator Gyang disclosed this on Sunday during his 60th birthday anniversary and Thanksgiving giving service, held at COCIN Church Fan, Barkin-Ladi Local Government Area of Plateau State. “We are looking forward for a credible, free and fair elections by INEC and I pray that Nigerians will come out and take advantage of the opportunity to source for ourselves credible leaders. “This is a destiny moment for Nigeria and God has placed it in our hands; it is an opportunity for us, we need to take advantage of it and use our PVCs very well and get ourselves catalyst leaders that are developmental and transformational not leaders that will be severely destructive.” He described as painful the difficult moment Nigerians are going through due to fuel scarcity and naira redesign by the Federal Government and urged Nigerian to ensure that they get it right in the next elections. “We are in a sobering moment but God said in all things and situations, we should give him thanks. I sympathized with Nigerians because this is a difficult moment for our citizens, it is a difficult moment that no one will wish it to his nation, no one will wish it for the citizens that we work for. “These are citizens that God has used them to positioned us to serve the nation. No sane man will wish this for the nation, I don’t wish this for Nigerians, I feel the pains of Nigerians that is why we are at the point that we need to source for ourselves leaders, we need to agree with God to get ourselves people that have empathy, people that can tackle the current challenges that we are facing as a nation.” Senator Gyang said he will continue to be firm in pursuing justice and fairness to usher in good governance for the development of Nigeria. “We will continue to stand for equity and fairness in the governance of our nation, we will continue to stand and speak where is necessary and whenever you find ourselves speaking with you, it means we agree with what you are saying and when you find us speaking in opposite direction, it is not because we are against you but because our conviction has led us to take that position. “I will not be afraid to take unpopular decisions provided they are in the interest of this nation. As long as I have breath in my life, I will serve God and create a just, humane and egalitarian society that gives opportunity to all, that is why were are in a critical moment in our nation.” He stated. Senator Gyang appreciated former Governor Joshua Dariye, former Governor Jonah David Jang and the Gbong Gwom Jos, Da Jacob Gyang Buba among others who have impacted their lives positively and provided platforms and opportunity to enable him serve his people well.