Prof. Akin Oyebode has said that when the masses are politically conscious and active, it becomes very difficult to impose on them a self-seeking, self-centered and self-perpetuating leadership. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Oyebode, Professor of International Laws and Jurisprudence, said that the current pains and privation being endured by Nigerians were not beyond redemption but depended largely on the election of politically correct leadership at the various levels of governance. Oyebode, speaking on the theme ‘Rethinking Nigeria’s Road to Nirvana’ at the 2nd edition of Dr. Abubakar Olaseni Annual Lecture, said that the recommendation has become necessary in a changing world. Oyebode, who was the guest lecturer, said that Nigeria must drastically scale down its targets, goals and initiate programmes and policies that could ensure sustainable development, peace and unity. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event held on Thursday at the Yaba College of Technology (YABATECH) was organised by students that had passed through Olaseni. Oyebode stated that Nigeria needed to take its rightful place in the comity of nations. He said Nigeria needed to have a full grip of its domestic affairs before it could play a positive role in international affairs. “Accordingly, Nigeria must immediately commence strategic sensing and recalibration in relation to its position to its neighbours, Africa and the rest of the world. “This is so important on account of the fact that African countries have been enduring increasing marginalisation in vital issues in the global economy. “This is occurring at a time when there appears to be a leadership vacuum on the African continent and Nigeria has, to all intents and purpose, abandoned its leadership role,” he added. Oyebode, pioneer Vice Chancellor of the University of Ado-Ekiti, declared that the march towards Nirvana in Nigeria would entail specific acts aimed at curtailing the infelicity of poverty and underdevelopment generally than a wholesale paradigm shift. Also, Barr. Lateef Fagbemi, who was the Chairman of the event, while speaking on the theme said that the road to Nirvana was not only apt but also thought provoking, considering the critical, near crisis and worrisome situation Nigeria was witnessing. Fagbemi, also Chairman, YABATECH Governing Board, said that the collective vision of Nigeria’s founding fathers was to have a united, peaceful and prosperous nation where righteousness and justice would abound. He, however, said that it was the responsibility of all to work towards ensuring that the labour of past heroes did not amount to nothing, pointing out that all hands must be on deck to uphold the vision of Nigeria’s founding fathers. “We all have to come together to make sure that our founding fathers’ vision of a united, peaceful and prosperous Nigeria remains undefeated. Fagbemi, represented by Uduak Iyang-Udo, Acting Rector of YABATECH, congratulated Olaseni and applauded him for his invaluable contributions over the years to the training and development of prospective town planners. On the same note, Iyang-Udo in his personal remarks commended the organisers of the event and said it was heartwarming when teachers were appreciated and celebrated while alive by their students and the community. Iyang-Udo said that Olaseni impacted his students positively and had advanced the cause of urban and regional planning profession for more than three decades. He said that the theme of the programme was very relevant at a time like this when people had given up hope as nothing seemed to be working. Olaseni, in his remarks, expressed his appreciation to the annual lecture panning group. He said the recommendations by the guest speaker would help a great deal in making Nigeria a better society. (NAN)