Police are investigating some governors and individuals whose utterances were considered to have incited riots over the naira redesign policy of the CBN. Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Usman Alkali, made this known in Abuja while fielding questions from State House correspondents. He was accompanied by the Attorney-General of Federation, Mr. Abubakar Malami, at the end of National Security Council meeting, presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday. Alkali said those found guilty would be prosecuted but maintained that the police were not in position to prosecute culpable governors because they enjoyed immunity. Governors Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State, Dapo Abiodun of Ogun and Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna states, had openly condemned and denigrated the implementation of the naira swap policy. They asked people in their states to continue to spend the old N500 and N1000 as legal tenders. “We all know why the governors have not been cautioned. We are investigating. Whoever does anything can be investigated.However, there are some people who have immunity. I think that is one of the reasons why they have not been cautioned. The immunity will not stop us from cautioning them; from warning them; from advising them; and we are doing so,’’ he said. According to the IGP, the police have done what is required to calm the situation and stabilise the polity, assuring that there would not be security issues on election day. On the outcome of the security meeting, Malami said the Council resolved that there was no going back on the February 25 and March 11 elections. He said the conclusion was reached after security chiefs briefed the Council on their level of preparedness for the elections. He noted that INEC had also expressed its preparedness to conduct the elections. “The summary and conclusion of all submissions was to the effect that the system is wholeheartedly ready for the conduct of the elections. “Arising there from, the position of government and the position of the president are to the effect that the elections are holding on Feb 25 and on March 11. “Mr. President and the National Security Council are happy with the preparations on ground and wholehearted arrangements are put in place in that direction,’’ Malami stressed.