From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja  The management of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), has vowed to come hard on any corps member who embarks on unauthorised journey outside their state of their deployment. The Director-General of the scheme, Brigadier General Yusha’u Dogara Ahmed, who handed the warning, urged the corps members not to undermine their security by embarking on unauthorised journeys. He maintained that his administration would continue to ensure that all corps members enjoyed improved welfare and security. General Ahmed read the riot act on Saturday while addressing corps members during his visit to NYSC Kaduna State temporary orientation camp at Kurmin-mashi. He said the contents of the NYSC bye-laws would be applied on every infraction, warning corps members to conduct themselves within the provisions of the law.  “It is a thing of pride to serve your fatherland, but don’t risk your lives by unauthorised journeys. Be disciplined and prayerful. Also be confident of yourselves; do your work diligently and l assure you, nothing will happen to you. “Avoid crime; obey the rules and regulations in the camp, and respect your leaders,” the statement signed by Eddy Megwa, Director, Press and Public Relations, quoted the DG as directing. The statement further disclosed that General Ahmed also specifically warned the corps members not to indulge themselves in political arguments, but rather participate as unbiased electoral officers, taking cognizance of the electoral laws during the forthcoming 2023 general elections. The NYSC chief executive equally advised them to ensure that they left good legacies in their place of primary assignments and host communities. While giving camp situation report to the Director-General, the NYSC Kaduna State Coordinator, Agbor Ndoma Obim, said that a total number of 1,077 corps members, comprising 407 males and 679 females were registered in camp. He added that they had been participating fully in camp activities. While in Kaduna, the DG visited three corps members on admission at the 44 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital, Kaduna. They were deployed but on transit from Yobe to Anambra State for their orientation course; they were involved in a ghastly motor accident in Kaduna State. The DG prayed for their quick recovery, commending the hospital management for the timely response made available for the injured corps members. While welcoming the DG to the hospital on behalf of the Chief Medical Director, the Administrative Officer of the hospital, Major OS Ojo, promised the hospital’s readiness to offer the best care to the injured corps members.