By Maduka Nweke The Chairman of Makarios Residence, Pastor Matthew Ashimolowo, has decribed land as the basis of all wealth. The heritage of the wise, the thrifty, and the prudent. Land remains the proud man’s joy and comfort. The silent partner of many thousands of successful men and women. It does not decay, die, decrease, or disappear. It is the inheritance you leave for your children, and it never suffers from obsolescence. Makarios Land will do all this and more for you. Buy today and see the value skyrocket. Buy now to avoid being one of the people who missed out. he said  Speaking during the ground breaking ceremony for the Makarios Residence, Ashimolowo said it  was the utmost pleasure at Makarios Luxury Properties to welcome you to our vision of a great Lagos, a thriving city predicted to have over 32 million residents by 2050.  He said “With its world-class free trade zone and Lekki international airport, Makarios is a hub for both living and entertainment. Choose from 800 living spaces, including 11 Imperial Towers, 230 service plots, 192 terraced homes, and 18 detached houses. Visit the iconic mall, water park, and hotel, and enjoy five-star living in the new Ikoyi of Lagos. Live, work, shop, and play in the city that’s bringing the luxury of Dubai’s waterfront to you.  “The Makarios Luxury Place spans a land area of 33 hectares with a total space available for retail amounting to 8,000 square metres. It has office space that amounts to 2,000 square metres and about to 2,250 square metres total space available for event hall. “The most significant advantages for those using Makarios facility include the fact that it is facing two major expressways and first of its kind water display. It has children’s water park and gardens, walkways for exercise, massive mall, school, event place, offices for rent hotel, 24 Hour Smart technology security, terraced houses, detached houses, 10-floor buildings with apartments and Serviced plots. “Makarios water display is highly spectacular. With a flagship, first-of-its-kind edifice of water extravaganza as its anchor attraction, the Makarios Water Display will make a splash from dancing fountains to the beautiful light displays, water has never looked so elegant.”  The Makarios Water Display will rejuvenate even the most tired of souls.  “The hotel in Makarios Luxury Place offers a variety of family-friendly accommodation options, from rooms to suites, in a peaceful and serene setting surrounded by beautiful gardens. Guests can indulge in leisure, plea- sure, and intercontinental gastronomy during their stay. The hotel is conveniently located just a few meters away from the Makarios Grand Mall, a 8,000 square meter shopping center that offers a wide range of options for shop- ping, from groceries to clothes, bags, shoes and furniture, and international brands. A perfect choice for an unfor- gettable holiday experience with easy access to all your shopping needs,”he noted. The Chairman noted that in the post-covid era, Makarios has recognized the need for flexible work spaces, and has made available 2000 sqm of land for office development. “Buy this land and create a functional and visually appealing space in Makarios community. The community also includes a world-class hotel, 8,000 sqm mall, unique water fountain, water park, garden, and 3,000-space car park all providing an ideal environment for events and conferences. The 2,257 sqm conference and event center is perfect for any occasion, day or night.  “The Anthizo (meaning Flourish) terraced buildings in Makarios offer 3-story living with luxurious features. Ground floor boasts a kitchen, lounge and dining room and guest bedroom. The first floor has space for domestic staff and a lounge. The second floor has three large bedrooms with en-suite bathrooms, including a spacious master bedroom, all designed by award-winning ABI Project Concepts Limited. The buildings offer a perfect blend of functionality and opulence.   “A “Deleazo” home will draw you in and make you always want to return. It features six reception areas, two massive terraces, a cinema, and six bedrooms, including a master bedroom that spans almost the entire length of the house, as well as staff quarters. Makarios houses are state-of-the-art, contemporary, and seamless smart homes. Only a limited number of these masterpieces will be available, so book yours now.  “The Imperial Towers, towering high in the Lekki skylines, feature 52 luxury apart- ments, 14 studio units, 14 2-bedroom apartments, 14 3-bedroom apart- ments, 4 5-bedroom apartments, and 5 2-bedroom loft units. They offer views of the Atlantic shorelines and will run as serviced apartments. Be the first to book and rise with the value as it increases. Floor plans include: Floor 1: 1- & 2-Bedroom Apartments (x4), Floors 2-8: 1-, 2-, & 3-Bedroom Apartments (x42), Floors 9-10: 5-Bedroom Maisonettes (x4), Pent Floor: 2-Bedroom Loft Apartments (x2),” he concluded.