…says Lalong’ll account for his deceits in court From Gyang Bere, Jos Plateau State Governorship Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Barr. Caleb Mutfwang has tackled Governor Simon Lalong over allegations of unpaid salaries during his tenure as Chairman of Mangu Local Government Area of the state. He noted that Lalong has run a government of deceits and deception in the last eight years where he illegally dissolved elected local government chairmen and replaced them with a caretaker committee. Mutfwang, while addressing a mammoth crowd in Wase Local Government Area during a town hall meeting, refuted Lalong’s claim and said he was not responsible for the payment of workers salaries during his tenure in office.  Lalong had addressed APC supporters during its campaign flag off in Wase, and accused Mutfwang of leaving behind 10 months salaries arrears during his tenure as Local Government Chairman. But Mutfwang urged Plateau citizens to ignore Lalong and assured civil servants that his administration would consider their welfare and payment of salaries as topmost priority if elected into office. He challenged Lalong to produce the  documents he claims to have in his disposal that shows he left 10 months salaries arrears, or be prepare to meet in court. “Yesterday the Governor of Plateau State was in Wase and he did not have anything to campaign on, except telling lies against Caleb Mutfwang. I want to challenge Governor Lalong in the same Wase, that if he is not a coward,  let him produce the documents that prove that I did not pay salaries for 10 months as local government chairman. “Let me inform you that I have instructed my lawyers to take action, he will be hearing from my lawyers very soon if he does not refute that allegation, we will meet in court. He should remember that his immunity expires on the 29th of May,  thereafter, he will have no hiding place.” Mutfwang also challenged the gubernatorial candidate of the APC, Dr. Nentawe Yilwatda, who stands to profit from Lalong’s malicious fabrication, against the PDP guber candidate, to refute the allegation or he would be seeing to be endorsing lies which Plateau people will vehemently resist. He said Plateau does not need liers and deceptive individuals as leaders, adding that the era of telling lies will end with Lalong on May 29. Mutfwang explained that the Local Government Service Commission under Mr Fabian Ntung, the current Chairman Plateau State Independent Electoral Commission (PLASIEC) was responsible for the payment of Local Government workers in the 17 LGA when  he was chairman of Mangu council area. He noted that Lalong who is a lawyer  unlawfully remove elected Council Chairmen who were only 1 year and 3 months in office instead of a three year tenure and is still owing Mutfwang and other Chairmen two months salary arrears. Mutfwang assures Plateau citizens of competent leadership, security and good governance where welfare of citizens and civil servants would be given topmost priority.