From Noah Ebije, Kaduna Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The vice presidential candidate of the People’s Redemption Party (PRP), Mr Haro Zego, has said that any presidential candidate promising to restructure Nigeria is not sincere about it. Zego said the business of restructuring the country is the exclusive responsibility of the National Assembly, wondering why a politician should make such a promise he will not be able to fulfil. He added that PRP would ensure that excessive spending in government will be drastically cut down to focus more on people-oriented programmes if voted into power. “We will cut down excessive spending in government because so much money is being wasted on unnecessary projects. We will not promise you that we will build bridges because the money will go to contractors, but we dwell largely on agricultural development which will have direct positive impacts on you”. He said. The Vice presidential hopeful spoke in Kaduna on Tuesday during a prayer meeting by some pastors of various denominations for the success of the party in the forthcoming elections. He promised that “We will ensure that the youths are groomed for future leadership because if we don’t do that they will become a recipe for violence. “Our brothers and sisters that are Fulani are not terrorists. The Fulani terrorists are foreigners who came to label our Fulani neighbours as bandits. And so we should love one another irrespective of religion and ethnicity as we have been living together several years past” He expressed joy that PRP brought him into the political limelight having been a businessman all his life, adding that his candidature, alongside the presidential candidate, would serve as mentorship for the next set of future politicians, as he canvassed for the teeming support of all and sundry for the next Saturday polls. He also frowned at those politicians forcing religion into politics, saying that religion should be separated from politics. The PRP Vice presidential candidate said there was a need for Nigerians to vote for their future, adding that the “2023 general election is not about sentiment.” Zego said the PRP will sustain the legacy of the party’s founding fathers, like the late f Moshood Abiola, Aminu Kano, Balarabe Musa, and Chinua Achebe, among others. “These are people who had been selfless and have lived their lives for the common good of the people. “PRP will bring a difference, sincerity and true governance and make policies that will uplift every Nigerian,” Zego said.