. Says ex-VP most suitable  From Okwe Obi, Abuja  The Allied peoples’ Movement (APM), has endorsed the Presidential Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, for the 25th February poll. APM National Chairman,Yusuf Dantalle Mamman, at press briefing yesterday in Abuja, claimed that Atiku was the best bet to salvage the country from doldrum of bad governance. Mamman added Nigeria needed a competent, experienced, visionary, resourceful and dynamic leader to resolve its multifarious challenges and chart a new course for the nation in next four years, which the former vice president, exemplified. “The Allied peoples’ Movement (APM) held its National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting today, Thursday 16th February 2023, on crucial national issues particularly the upcoming Presidential Election.  “After extensive deliberations, the party decided to adopt the presidential candidate and vice presidential candidates of the Peoples Democratic party, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for the 25th February 2023, presidential election. “After evaluating the democratic credentials of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, the Allied Peoples’ Movement Considers it appropriate in national interest to adopt them for president and vice president in the forthcoming election. “Atiku-Okowe ticket is the best and the only presidential ticket to rescue the nation that has been drifting to anarchy. “Nigeria needs a competent, experienced, visionary, resourceful and dynamic leader to resolve its multifarious challenges and chart a new course for the nation in next four years. “APM has confidence in the leadership of Atiku-Okowa and will collapse its structures nationwide to campaign for their presidential  ticket,” he said. He, however said: “The Party will contest other elective positions including Senate, House of Representatives, Governorship and State House of Assembly seats. “APM presented credible candidates for these positions and sure of victory in Governorship and Legislative seats.   “National interest Supersedes partisan politics. We must join hands to rebuild our beloved nation and  make Nigeria great again.  “The party urges Nigerians to come out en masse and vote for PDP’s  presidential candidate and his running mate, Atiku and Okowa. “The umbrella symbol of the party is big enough to accommodate fellow compatriots and turnaround the destiny of the nation.”