From Tony John, Port Harcourt The Assistant Inspector General (AIG) of Police, in charge of election in Rivers State, AIG Abutu Yaro, has assured residents of the state of adequate security before, during and after elections. AIG Yaro, in a press briefing, yesterday, with four Commissioners of Police, deployed to the state, warned trouble makers and persons who would want to truncate the peace of the state to steer clear as the police and other security agencies will not allow such situations to thrive. He said the high powered delegation was mandated by IGP to undertake security management for the election.  The AIG Yaro said the police were determined to ensure professionalism and rancour-free election  in Rivers State. He further stated that his expectations are that the ideas, pursuit of anybody should be in tandem with the law, especially the electoral act and  criminal code. He said: “There is no alternative to peace. We encourage all persons and all police officers to be professional in the discharge of their duties. We will ensure the election is rancour-free and peaceful. We keep you abreast as the election progresses. The only legacy we can impact as individuals is the legacy of peace. We owe a duty to God and to the state to preserve the legacy of peace. “Persons with ulterior motives, whose ideas are different from normal, we are not going to fold our arms and allow that situation to exist. We must ensure the environment remains peaceful and human activities are conducted in the most peaceful way. “Election Security Management in Nigeria has no provision for vigilance groups either in electoral law or under the constitution that is applicable in Rivers State. Sufficient policemen have been deployed to cover Rivers State. I urge residents to come out  en masse and vote for candidates of their choice without fear. We do not belong to any political party; we belong to the police force and we will remain neutral.” He stated that restrictions of vehicular movement interstate and intrastate are already in place as announced by Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba Alkali.  Daily Sun gathered that one Commissioner of Police has been deployed to each of the three senatorial districts in Rivers State, while the fourth Commissioner of Police was deployed as resident Commissioner of Police in the state police headquarters.