•Advises Nigerians to vote visionary, credible leaders Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Fred Ezeh, Abuja  Catholic Bishops under the umbrella of Catholic Bishops’ Conference of Nigeria (CBCN) have raised concerns about the efficiency, functionality and accuracy of the newly introduced Bi-modal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) in the coming elections. The Bishops reminded the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that the coming election was very important and crucial to Nigerians, and that nothing should temper with the credibility of the process. CBCN President, Most Rev. Lucius Iwejuru Ugorji, in his remarks at the opening session of the 2023 first plenary assembly of the CBCN in Abuja, yesterday, asked INEC to, perhaps, do assessment of the BVAS using the recently conducted mock accreditation exercise and improve on areas with lapses. “We applaud INEC for introducing BVAS in our electoral process. However, we hope INEC will ensure that the BVAS machines are functional on election days in all the polling units across the country even in the remotest wards, following the repeated assurances of INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, in this regard.  Let the fears in some quarters not be confirmed that the BVAS machines might be manipulated or pre-programmed to be functional in some polling units and dysfunctional in others. Any infraction by INEC staff on the use of the BVAS during the general elections should be reported to the appropriate quarters.” Ugorji charged INEC to live above board as an independent and impartial umpire and ensure that their conduct in the electoral process is beyond reproach.  Meanwhile, Catholic Bishop of Pankshin in Plateau, Most Rev. Michael Gokum has advised Nigerians to vote visionary and credible leaders in the forthcoming general elections. Gokum, spoke at the 2023 Lenten Campaign Launch of the diocese on Sunday in Pankshin, decrying the poor state of the economy and insecurity, stressing the need for good leaders to emerge in the forthcoming polls. “It is not a secret that Nigerians are suffering, a lot of things are not right in this country; today kidnapping, banditry, armed robbery, killings and other forms of insecurity have taken over our land. Nobody is safe, nothing seems to be working because of corruption and the self centredness of those in authority. Our roads have become dead traps, our farmers can’t go to their farms and we can’t sleep with our eyes closed. So, I want to call on Nigerians to vote visionary and credible leaders in the forthcoming elections; vote leaders who mean well and will help this country to attain its full potentials,” Gokum said. The bishop was represented at the event by the Vicar General of the diocese, Rev. Fr. Paul Watpe. The bishop advised Nigerians not to sell their votes, but ensure they vote those with capacity to move the country to the next level.