From David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi Please enable JavaScript In the spirit of think-home philosophy and evangelism, an Anglican faithful based in Lagos, Sir Dr Goodluck Obi, has single-handedly built and donated a multimillion naira church building to his hometown, Umuanuka, Otolo Nnewi, Anambra State. During the church dedication, Sir Obi, a businessman, said it was a dream come true having made a vow to build a magnificent place of worship in his hometown in return for God’s abundant blessings. Sir Obi said he experienced difficult times in life that made him to make a vow which he said he had redeemed, adding that he was ready to continue to serve God in different dimensions. “The project is indeed divinely orchestrated. I firmly believe that we are created here for a purpose and our lives here has no meaning, if we cannot impact on lives and society positively. “Great credit goes to the people of God for their cooperative spirit, prayers and their responsiveness. I thank them for being confident in me to undertake the task, ” he said. In his sermon, the Bishop of Nnewi Diocese, Rt Rev Ndubisi Obi commended Sir Obi and wife, Lady Amala for donating the church to the Diocese in the interest of worshippers within and outside the vicinity. The Bishop urged Christians to continue to contribute positively towards the propagation of the gospel in any way they could. He wished the donor and his family what he described as uncommon favour, grace and mercy. The Bishop also named Sir Obi as Nnewi Diocesan Ambassador to Lagos Diocese. The Bishop said: “I thank God for Sir Obi’s vision to build the modern church edifice and house of prayer at Umuanuka village with a modern architectural design and equipped with the necessary things of worship. “I appeal to Christians to worship God sincerely, in humility and love. It’s interesting to note that Sir Obi has the vision to build other laudable projects including Hope Obi Memorial Vocational School in memory of his late mother, Madam Hope Nchebechukwu Obi; Mercy Ulasi Memorial Health Center in memory of his grandmother, Madam Mercy Mgbeke Ulasi.” The Bishop on the Niger, Rt Rev Owen Nwokolo said the donor’s labour in God’s vineyard would never be in vain. The Bishop of Lagos West, Rt Rev Olusola Odedeji described Obi as a child of God and devoted Christian. “Sir Obi is a committed and true Anglican, a cheerful giver who is always led by the spirit of generosity, benevolence and sincerity, ” Bishop Odedeji said. He noted that the church would transform the worship life of the people and provide spiritual rejuvenation and reinvigorate of the worshippers. Congratulations also came from Archbishop Abidun Adetiloye Memorial Church, Ajao Estate, Lagos wishing Sir Obi God’s blessings and bountiful reward. His Royal Highness, Kenneth Orizu III, Igwe Nnewi, among other traditional rulers were at the event.