Deontay Wilder confirmed that he has been in talks over a two-fight deal with Francis Ngannou. The Bronze Bomber returned to the ring in October after a year’s absence with a knockout win over Finn Robert Helenius. And in the hunt for his next bout, he has confirmed rumours that he could take on Ngannou as the former UFC heavyweight champion seeks to enter the big-money world of boxing after leaving the MMA franchise earlier this year. There has been much discussion about who Ngannou could take on next, with Tyson Fury and Anthony Joshua among those who could face up to the French-Cameroonian fighter – even as the 36-year-old demands £24m to make it happen. Speaking in Saudi Arabia in the wake of the Tommy Fury – Jake Paul fight, Wilder told reporters that talks with Ngannou’s team were hot about a two-fight deal across two continents. As IFL TV reported, Wilder said: ‘that is a real discussion. We try to do a two-fight deal, one maybe here [Saudi Arabia] and the other one in Africa.’ It is now down to a discussion over schedules, and meeting the requirements of both sides about when and where the battles will take place, and the financial demands.  Tommy Fury – Tyson’s younger half-brother – beat Paul on Sunday night by split decision, in a closely fought contest that has split opinion, with some believing that the wrong man won despite Fury’s early dominance in the bout. As Sportsmail previously reported, Wilder was among those who think Paul was robbed, calling referee Hector Afu ‘immature’ for a points deduction in round five – even though Fury was also penalised during the contest.  While both parties appear to be in favour of a rematch, it has also added to the appeal of Saudi Arabia as a destination for boxing’s biggest encounters. Speaking after Fury’s win in Saudi Arabia, Wilder said: ‘I think this is the new hotbed for boxing. It’s a hotspot. I love the structure, and the way they’ve got plans, what they’re trying to do over here, and what they will do. Wilder has vowed to fight in the Middle East, and it could see him squaring up against Ngannou.