• Warns hoodlums as Tinubu, Shettima, Adamu, others storm Osogbo tomorrow Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Lateef Dada, Osogbo  All Progressives Congress (APC) has alleged that political hoodlums who are loyalists of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are planning to unleash violence before, during, and after the presidential rally of the party scheduled for tomorrow.  APC acting Chairman, Tajudeen Lawal, who stated this at the Tinubu/Shettima campaign office in Osogbo, during a press conference, yesterday, said the APC has consequently warned the political hoodlums that have been unleashing violence and perpetrating series of attacks on the people of the state, particularly APC members, to desist from the heinous acts in the interest of peace and tranquility. Lawal called on the security agencies to come to the aid of its members and continue to do the needful by clamping down on those that have been causing mayhem across the nooks and crannies of the state since the emergence of the PDP-led government in the state. The APC unveiled names of the perceived hoodlums and political thugs that have been fomenting crises in the state allegedly being backed by the incumbent Governor, Ademola Adeleke. He alleged that parts of the PDP’s unholy plans to frustrate and truncate the rally are to kit its political hoodlums with branded APC uniforms and face caps to give false identities to the PDP-sponsored political thugs. “We also discovered through our painstaking efforts that the controversial Chief Security Officer (CSO) to the governor, one Chief Superintendent of Police, Omoyele Adekunle (the leader of the killer squad), has been the one giving instructions and protection to the hooded political thugs. “Our discovery also revealed that the Osun State chapter of the PDP has provided police and the Nigerian Army uniforms to be given to their numerous thugs tomorrow during our presidential rally. “According to our reliable source, part of the booby traps orchestrated by the PDP/Adeleke to truncate the Tinubu/Shettima presidential rally tomorrow is to prevent commercial vehicles and motorcycles from working by the use of political thugs to be led by Ado ‘Igbona’ and ‘Emir’ in Osogbo metropolis,” he said. Responding, Senior Special Assistant to Governor Adeleke, Oladele Bamiji, said the right to protest is a fundamental human right but the government will try its best to halt whatever can disturb the peace of the state on that day. He explained that APC denied them of using the stadium but the PDP has released it to them now, saying: “They have started to import thugs into the state ahead of their rally from all the South West states which we are taking cognisance of.”