……..as police nabs 25yrs suspect for raping 12yrs old girl 3 times in bush Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Olanrewaju Lawal,Birnin Kebbi  A 30 year old man, identified as Uma Aminu has been apprehended by the Kebbi State Police Command for allegedly killing a 25 years old,Samai’la SanuSanusi Aliyu, Student of Adamu Augie College of Education, Argungu over ‘mere’ argument.    Kebbi State Commissioner of Police,Mr. Ahmed Mogaji Kontagora who confirmed this while briefing newsmen in Birnin Kebbi,disclosed that,the suspect used wood to hit the victim on his head and caused his untimely death.   According to him, “on the 9th February, 2023 one Usman Aminu ‘m’ aged 30yrs of Tungar Maidawa village, Argungu LGA of Kebbi State, used a wood and hit one Sama’ila Sanusi Aliyu ‘m’ aged 25yrs of Sabon Birni village, Bunza LGA of Kebbi State, and a student of Adamu Augie Collage of Education, Argungu, over a mere argument.    ” As a result, the victim fell down unconscious and was rushed to General Hospital Argungu, where a Medical Doctor confirmed him dead. The suspect has confessed to the crime and will be charged to court on the completion of investigation”. Kontagora also disclosed that one Yohana Musa and his three brothers have been arrested for allegedly killing one Yunana Ayuba,for discussed with his wife at the backyard of their house.     He said: ” On the 30th January, 2023 at about 2100hrs, one Yunana Ayuba of Kyaun village, Ngaski LGA, went to Mokoto village, Ngaski LGA, entered into the residence of one Yohana Musa and called his wife named Abigail Yohana to the backyard of his house. When sighted, the husband, Yohana Musa, called his brothers namely; Bawa Yawani, Solomon Moses and Luka Musa all ‘m’ of the same address, pursued and lynched Yunana Ayuba into a state of coma.    ” On receipt of the report, a team of Policemen was mobilized to the scene, removed the victim and rushed him to General Hospital, Warrah, where a Medical Doctor certified him dead. The suspects have confessed to crime and will soon be charged to court for prosecution”, he said.   He further disclosed that,his officers  on the 10th February, 2023 at about 1430hrs arrested  one Illo Mai’ole ‘m’ aged 25yrs of Dalijan village, Gwandu LGA, Criminally intimidation one Ubaida Aliyu ‘f’ aged 12yrs of Gwanyal village, at Dagachari bush with a knife and forcefully had sexual intercourse with her three times stressed that,the suspect will be arraigned in court after investigation completed.  The Commissioner of Police also disclosed that a fake Doctor, one Yusuf Omotayo Abdulfatai an indigene of Ilorin,Kwara State was arrested with forged certificates.     “On the 30th January, 2023, one Yusuf Omotayo Abdulfatai ‘m’ of old mechanic village, Birnin Kebbi, was apprehended and handed over to the Police at SCID, Birnin Kebbi, by the staff of Ministry of Health, Kebbi State,  in possession of certificates reasonably suspected to be forged documents and was parading himself to be a Medical Doctor working with a private Hospital named DDG Medical Centre, Birnin Kebbi.     “In the course of investigation, many suspected items including forged and fraudulent documents were recovered and the suspect has confessed to the commission of the crime. The suspect will be arraigned in court for prosecution accordingly”.