By Moses Akaigwe Porsche is out testing prototypes for an updated version of its Cayenne mid-size SUV, which is confirmed to launch in the second quarter of this year as a 2024 model. The German sports car brand released images of the Cayenne undergoing testing recently.. The automaker said there will be tweaks to the powertrain lineup, chassis, connectivity, and list of standard features. The goal for engineers, the automaker said, is to deliver a vehicle with an even wider range between on-road performance, comfort, and off-road capability. There will be design tweaks, too. The popular performance SUV is set to take on a radical—at least for Porsche—new look judging by the changes spotted on the prototypes. The front end has been completely revised and features new headlights with a flatter, more angular shape similar to the design used on the Taycan electric car. The headlights are Porsche’s latest matrix LED design, featuring four individual projectors instead of the single main unit on the current Cayenne range. The taillights have also been concealed, suggesting a new concept here. We can also see that the tailgate has been revised, as the recess for the license plate has been moved onto the rear fascia. This design is already used on the related Cayenne Coupe, which is about to undergo a similar update. Porsche hasn’t provided a look inside the new Cayenne, but it will be updated to integrate a fully digital dash similar to the one in the Taycan. A 12.7-inch screen is expected to serve as the instrument cluster, while a 12.3-inch touchscreen is expected to serve as the infotainment hub. In the chassis department, Porsche will make adaptive dampers a standard feature across the range. Larger diameter tires will also help improve comfort and grip levels. It isn’t clear what updates Porsche has planned for the powertrains, though there are rumors the Cayenne S will drop the current twin-turbo 2.9-liter V-6 in favor of Porsche’s twin-turbo 4.0-liter V-8. Typically, Porsche dials up the horsepower on most grades with its updates, so powertrain tweaks in other grades are also likely. The lineup currently tops out with the Turbo S E-Hybrid grade, which is rated at a stout 670 hp. While the Cayenne Coupe has a new Turbo GT grade with a twin-turbo V-8 that delivers 631 hp on its own, it isn’t clear if this grade will make it into the regular Cayenne lineup.same time, similar to how BMW launched its redesigned 2023 7-Series and its electric i7 variant together last year. Looking closely at the prototypes, it becomes clear that the grille is sealed off. The tester also lacks exhaust tips, and the flanks and rear have warning stickers for the electrified powertrain. The side mirrors are also the more aerodynamic design used by BMW M, which suggests this particular tester is for a sporty M Performance model, perhaps similar to the 2023 i4 M50 and 2023 iX M60. It isn’t clear what specs the i5 will have, but the i4 comes with a 83.9-kwh battery and the i7 gets a 101.7-kwh battery. Both vehicles have a maximum range of around 300 miles. The updated version of its Cayenne mid-size SUV is expected to be made available in the Nigerian market through the representative in the country, The Porsche Centre Lagos which has a state-of-the art showroom in Lagos and Abuja.  It was also heard that the redesigned M5 will eventually have an electric version as an alternative to its standard V-8 plug-in hybrid powertrain. The electric M5 could use a four-motor powertrain delivering close to 1,000 hp, a setup BMW M engineers are testing.