Yoruba traditional rulers, elders, others endorse APC candidate By Lukman Olabiyi, Lagos Former Ogun State Governor, Aremu Olusegun Osoba and other political leaders in South West have revealed how the All Progressive Congress (APC), presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu was pressurised to vie for president of Nigeria. Osoba and other political leaders in the region revealed this while speaking at the Yoruba and South West leaders of Thought Summit in Lagos on Monday. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. A chieftain of APC and convener of the summit, Prince Tajudeen Olusi in his welcome address, also revealed how late Alafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi initiated the summit before his death, to rally support for Tinubu’s candidature. Olusi disclosed that all Yoruba traditional rulers were involved in the project to make Tinubu president of Nigeria right from inception, noting that the monarchs’ involvement was the reason Tinubu is accepted by the majority of the Yoruba and other ethnic groups. Osoba in his address said Tinubu joining the presidential race was not his own making but the making of prominent and progressive politicians from the South West who pressurised him (Tinubu) in 2007 to join the race for president. The former Ogun governor said the idea of Tinubu should aspire for president of Nigeria was muted at a dinner organised for him after he ended his tenure as governor of Lagos State. According to him, many prominent and progressive politicians were at the dinner, held at a popular hotel along Awolowo Road, Ikoyi to honour for him for his outstanding performance. “It was at the gathering in 2007, we all pressurised him to aspire for president and he agreed, since then, he had worked tirelessly to justify the confidence we have in him”, Osoba said. The summit which was attended by many prominent politicians and elders, market and religious leaders from South West, was also used to endorse Tinubu as the sole candidate for president. Former Ogun State Governor, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, chairman of the submit, Arh. Bishop Ayo Oladigbolu, Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrosheed Akanbi, Speaker of House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, Ayangburen of Ikorodu, Oba Kabiru Sotobi, and others charged Yoruba to unite for Tinubu. They all pleaded that Nigerians who feel Tinubu has offended them should forgive to forgive the candidate and rally behind him for the best interest of Nigeria. The host governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu also charged Nigerians to support Tinubu and vote for him massively. He said Tinubu is the right man for the job of President due to his track record, achievement and plan for Nigeria. Specifically, in his address, Oba Akanbi said all the traditional rulers in Yorubaland have endorsed Tinubu as president, and they were already working and mobilizing for the APC candidate. He charged all the sons and daughters to vote massively for Tinubu because of his contribution and commitment to developing Nigeria. He said: “We in Yorubaland, we cannot leave our son and go and vote for another person. “The pronouncement of the Kings have erased whatever they are saying, Nobody is above the kings in Yorubaland, no matter who they are, they are the subject of a king in Yorubaland, if they refuse to listen we the traditional rulers, they will place on where they belong”, he said. The APC presidential candidate arrived at the event late from Abuja, entered the venue by 4:30 pm and left for Abuja by 5:40 pm. He urged Nigerians to vote for him on Saturday. Tinubu said he was very happy to meet the hall filled to its capacity despite coming late. He appreciated everyone and urged them to mobilize their people to vote for him.