By Kate Halim And Noah Ebije Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. February 14 is Valentine’s Day. It is a day set aside for lovers and couples to celebrate their love every year. But with the lack of cash flow in the country as well as the scarcity of fuel biting hard on the people, physically and psychologically, will Valentine’s Day celebration still hold across Nigeria on February 14? Some Nigerians share their views. To even think of Valentine now is difficult  –Michael Igoche, electrician  To be honest with you, it is going to be very hard celebrating Valentine this year. Even to think of the Valentine is very difficult because of the problems of naira and fuel scarcity we are facing now. There is no fuel, money is hard to get. All these have increased prices of other goods and services, including intra and inter-state transportations. So my mind is off the issue of Valentine, not to talk of even celebrating it. However, last year celebration was better, I went out with my loved ones, we had a nice time. There was money and fuel, so we didn’t it find it difficult to celebrate last year despite the issue of insecurity here and there. I want to use this opportunity to appeal to the Federal Government to revise this currency policy to make life easier for the common man. Government and banks should allow people to access their money freely in the banks for now. How can I celebrate Valentine with no money in my pocket?  –Mark Hussain, businessman    It is a very terrible situation we found ourselves in now in this country. We are surrounded by crises; no much money in circulation, no fuel. We have no access to the banks. We are facing serious challenges. Valentine or no valentine, there are serious problems on ground. Our leaders are just making the poor masses suffer. How can I celebrate Valentine when I don’t have money in my pocket or when I cannot access my own money in the bank? The only people suffering from this terrible situation are the masses. It is like when two elephants fight, the grasses suffer. So right now the masses are suffering because of this naira policy put in place by the CBN and the federal government. We celebrated Valentine last year but we didn’t lack money, except the fear of insecurity. But today, prices of essential commodities have gone up. So how can one celebrate Valentine? We pray that next year celebration will be far better than this. And may God take us to next year Valentine celebration. No outing this year  –Audu Lauretta, businesswoman  I love celebrating Valentine’s Day with my husband every year but I don’t think they will be any form of outing this year.  Instead, we have promised to exchange gifts as usual. My birthday comes up in two weeks and until I see a reasonable change in the system, I might not do anything to celebrate it too. I just hope things get better for us.  Against all odds, I will celebrate  –Bukola Adeyemi,  businessman Against all odds, I will still celebrate this year Valentine’s Day as usual. Despite the challenges of the moment, I will still have to make out time to appreciate my loved ones in a special way. But generally speaking, this year’s celebration is going to be a low key celebration for many people due to cash and fuel scarcity. I just know that it won’t stop me from doing what I have planned for that day.  For my husband and I, everyday is Valentine  –Ibiyemi Aisha Ajiboye-Roberts, Diplomat  Primarily, Valentine is a celebration of unending love. So, irrespective of the pain and stress caused by fuel and cash scarcity, I will celebrate Valentine’s Day. But generally speaking, when it comes to my husband and I, everyday is Valentine’s Day but we will still do something special on February 14 to keep the spark in our relationship. I already have my gifts for him and I am sure he has mine ready too.  People will improvise, even without cash or fuel  –Godwin Morka, civil servant For me, every day is Valentine’s Day. The most important components of the celebration are two people who care about each other. Those who truly love each other can improvise and enjoy the day, with or without cash or fuel. I know I will celebrate the day with my wife.  Despite challenges, we’ll celebrate love  –Oge Okoroji, businesswoman  Despite low cash flow and fuel scarcity, I will still celebrate the day of love because it is important to me and my husband. It may not be the way I planned it initially before the fuel and naira saga, but in a small memorable way. I love the idea of setting a day aside to celebrate love.