From David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. As the 2023 presidential campaign heats up there have been calls for Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate Mr Peter Obi to be careful with his supporters, despite the candidate’s general acceptability, particularly among the youth. One of the warnings has come from the Spiritual Director of Soul Revival Ministry, Nnewi, Anambra State, Prophet Iyke Uzukwu, who said he had seen deceivers surrounding Obi in the spiritual realm in the name of supporting him. Prophet Iyke said the LP candidate who he described as a crowd puller and the choice of many should be more prayerful than ever before. “Peter Obi might be betrayed by his people but God can still change the situation to his advantage. Not all those who are praising him are on his side. Human beings are treacherous and he should be careful the way he trusts people. It’s obvious that God wants to use him to salvage this country, but not many are happy about that. “Sixty per cent of those praising him will not vote for him. Again the South East governors are jealous of him. He should note that. These things were revealed to me spiritually, ” he said. He advised Obi to pay attention to those coordinating his campaign to make sure that people at the grassroots were considered vital instruments for the success of the election. The Prophet further advised Obi that the policy of not giving “shishi” would not be in the best interest of his election project. “Obi says he doesn’t give ‘shishi’ but ‘shishi’ is very important in this election. Nigerians are hungry. He has to change that philosophy. He can go back to that principle after the election,” Prophet Uzukwu said. On the People’s Democratic Party (PDP)’s candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, Uzukwu noted that he was being unnecessarily attacked by his opponents. He said that it was unfortunate to observe that a campaign of calumny had been the stock in trade of many politicians in Nigeria. He said that Atiku might turn out to be the best leader to fix Nigeria. According to him, Atiku would not mismanage Nigeria’s economy, adding that he was not campaigning for anybody but only delivering what he saw about Atiku. The Prophet said that All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate Bola Tinubu running on a same-faith ticket would work against him in the election. “He was warned but he insisted on that ticket. Tinubu should go and apologise to former President Goodluck Jonathan to forgive him. He knows why he should do that. His allies are also there to betray him,” he concluded.