The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) have disclosed that 4.3 million girls are at risk of female genital mutilation (FGM) this year and the number projected to reach 4.6 million by 2030. According to them, unless urgent measures are put in place to curb female genital mutilation, the goal of ending the harmful practice worldwide by 2030 may not be realised. This was contained in their joint statement to commemorate the International Day of Zero Tolerance for Female Genital Mutilation. It is usually marked on February 6, to assess and accelerate the efforts on the elimination of the practice. The theme for this year’s celebration is “Partnership with Men and Boys to Transform Social and Gender Norms to end FGM.” Available records show that Nigeria accounts for the third highest number of women and girls that have been circumcised the world over. Regrettably, conflict, climate change, rising poverty and inequality have hindered efforts to transform gender and social norms that support the practice as well as disrupt programmes targeted at protecting the girls. The UN agencies bemoaned that despite efforts by the government to curb the practice, it is still widespread in Nigeria, with an estimated 19.9 million survivors. The risk of cutting is reportedly highest in the first five years. The FGM prevalence in Nigeria decreased among women aged 15-49 according to data from the 2021 Multiple Indicator Survey (MICS). Also, the prevalence among girls aged 0-14 decreased from 25 per cent to eight per cent during the same period. About 12 states had a prevalence higher than the national prevalence, ranging from nine per cent in Edo to 35 per cent in Kwara and Kano, within the same period. More still needs to be done to eliminate the menace. FGM comprises all procedures that involve partial or total removal of the external female genitalia, or other injuries to the female genital organs for non-medical reasons. FGM is performed among groups in the country for many reasons that are basically rooted in cultural norms, poverty, illiteracy, social norms, and sometimes as religious obligations. In some societies, FGM is often considered a necessary part of raising a girl, and a way to prepare her for adulthood and marriage. This can include controlling her sexuality to promote premarital virginity and marital fidelity. In such instances, girls who remain uncut are often mocked or looked down upon in the society. These are misconceptions that do not have rational or scientific explanations. Medical experts are of the view that the practice has no health benefits for girls and women.  It rather causes them severe bleeding and problems in urinating, infections, as well as complications in childbirth and increased risk of newborn deaths. Other long-term complications include vaginal problems such as discharge, itching, bacterial vaginosis and other infections; menstrual and sexual problems. The practice is mostly carried out by traditional circumcisers, without proper knowledge of human anatomy and medicine, thus exposing the girls to more health hazards. We condemn female circumcision and enjoin parents to desist from the harmful cultural practice. All the 36 states should ban the practice. The 774 local governments should assist in curbing the practice. Apart from violating the rights of women and girls, female circumcision limits their opportunities for the future in health, education and income. Community and religious leaders must create awareness on the harmful effects of female circumcision. Let the health authorities increase the awareness campaign on the dangers of the practice. It is remarkable that the government has recognized FGM as a discriminatory practice requiring policy and legal interventions since 2002, when it developed the first National FGM Policy. In furtherance of the efforts to halt the harmful practice, the Jonathan administration enacted the Violence Against Persons Prohibition Act in 2015, which effectively banned FGM. The law against FGM must be fully enforced. Stiffer punishments should be meted to parents and communities found to be engaging in the practice. Nigeria must not be found wanting in the global march to eliminate FGM by 2030. No efforts should be spared in ensuring that the goal is achieved