• Throws weight behind Obi By Zika Bobby  Throwing its weight behind the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, the Igbo World Assembly (IWA) has called on the Igbo to ignore calls to boycott the general  election.  Making the call during a world press conference jointly addressed by Christian Onuorah, IWA vice chairman and Oliver Nwankwor, secretary general, the group said if elected, Obi would make positive changes in Nigerian political history.  The Igbo diaspora group from 35-member countries disclosed they voted unanimously to endorse and support Obi and Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed in the election. The choice of Obi, according to IWA, has generated widespread acceptance by many Nigerians, particularly among the youths and women worldwide given the fact that he is the only governor that is not in the radar of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). “We strongly believe Obi’s victory will turn things around for better. Nigeria is a consumption economy. Obi has been preaching against that. The positive energy, hope and faith in a new Nigeria will be ushering in the spirit of committed resolution to Nigerian challenges. Obi has the track record for standing up for the rights of all Nigerians and is working tirelessly as he did during his tenure as Anambra State governor to improve the lives of Nigerians.” According to IWA, “Obi took education in Anambra to the top  within a very short time. He built the best network of roads in Anambra State when compared to the rest of Nigeria. By extension, Obi has a clear vision on how best to address the challenges facing our nation, especially security and economic challenges. He has the experience and leadership skills to implement them. “As leaders in the diaspora, we have been craving for good governance. We believe that Obi is the right candidate that  will lead our nation to a brighter future. We urge all our brothers and sisters in diaspora in particular and Nigerians in general to join us in supporting, voting for him and working together to ensure a better new Nigeria for all,” the group said. With optimism, the diaspora Igbo group further noted that Obi as president would effectively and decisively confront the security menace facing the country. “Anambra State was adjudged the safest state in Nigeria at that time. He will do the same as president. Among the presidential aspirants, Obi is the only corrupt-free contestant. IWA is convinced that he will bring the cost of governance down and will honestly fight corruption to a final stop. Obi, if elected, will stop fraudulent activities and embezzlement in government, nepotism and mediocrity in government, among others,” the group said.