…To boost broadband penetration Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. By Chinenye Anuforo, chinenyeanuforo@gmail.com For the Federal Government (FG) to achieve its digital economy agenda, the need for adequate infrastructure has been emphasised.     Head, Spectrum Administration, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Mr. Abraham Oshada, at this year’s AFRICANXT in Lagos, explained that digital economy could not exist without needed infrastructure, saying, “Globally, infrastructure is the bedrock for adequate broadband penetration”.      Oshadami said that Nigeria had taken the lead by providing wireless resources because there were policies to deploy the infrastructure and make them work.     According  to him, Nigeria has done well in the entire Africa, by being at the forefront of making resources available to provide high speed broadband leveraging on satellite  and technology.     Speaking on “Mandate and Strides Towards Full Digital Economy in Nigeria”,  Aderonke Sola-Ogunsola, NCC’s Head of Financing and Stakeholders Engagement Team said over 100 million Subscribers Identity Module (SIM) has so far been produced locally within a year of the first Nigeria Telecommunications Indigenous Content Expo.     She said that the country could serve as manufacturer of SIM in West Africa through the Nigeria Telecommunications Indigenous Content of the NCC. She said over 100 millions of SIMs had been ordered by various telecommunications companies, putting an end to the importation of SIM and an attainment of a fully digital economy in Nigeria.     Sola-Ogunsola said that at the 2022 indigenous content expo in Lagos, the Federal Government banned the importation of SIMs into the country.  According to her, Nigeria Telecommunications Indigenous Content is to encourage innovation among the youths and promote the digital economy.      ‘’There is the need to ensure individuals, businesses and the nation harness derivable benefits and the opportunities offered by the emergent digital culture, to improve quality of life, grow businesses, and leapfrog the national economy.     ‘’This remains the overarching objective of government policies, plans, and strategies,” she said.      The Head, Digital Skills and Services, NCC, Freda Bruce-Bennett, said that Nigeria was rapidly becoming a digital economy. Bruce-Bennett said that out of seven tech unicorns in Africa, five were Nigerian companies, namely Andela, Flutterwave, Interswitch, Jumia and Opay      According to her, NCC is working with tertiary institutions and the National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) on how youths could build their capacity.