Urges Nigerians to be ready to overcome challenges Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja The presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has chided his People’s Democratic Party (PDP) counterpart, Atiku Abubakar, over claims that he is stockpiling new Naira notes to buy votes during the forthcoming presidential election. Reacting to the allegation from the opposition party’s presidential candidate, Tinubu, through his Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), described the allegation as ludicrous, spurious and a desperate attempt to divert public attention from his anti-people posturing. The statement read; “our attention has been drawn to the irresponsible and infantile allegation by Atiku, claiming that our presidential candidate, Tinubu is mopping up new naira notes to buy votes. “The allegation is simply ludicrous, spurious and a desperate attempt to divert public attention from the anti-people posturing of the PDP candidate, after he and Labour Party candidate, Peter Obi, asked the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) not to extend the deadline for the use of old naira notes. “They took the position despite the pains our compatriots are experiencing. They actively promoted the sanctity of the deadline in the calculated hope of reaping a political windfall from the people’s suffering. “We are not surprised that the PDP made a volte-face to conjure a completely unfounded allegation against Tinubu. Having realised that Atiku’s selfish, uncaring position has generated popular anger and resentment against him, it came up with this absurd claim that our candidate is mopping up new currency notes. We want to assure Nigerians that claim is utterly false,” Tinubu declared in the statement.Reacting further, the statement read: “Tinubu, always the voice of the voiceless and champion of the underprivileged, at numerous rallies and campaign stops, identified with our people and boldly called on CBN to extend the deadline and end the public suffering.” “We urge all Nigerians to disregard the allegations being peddled by the PDP and its surrogates, Bukarti and Jafar and continue to exercise patience and to exhibit love, support and determination until the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu/Kashim Shettima ticket is delivered at the polls with a landslide.” Meanwhile, Tinubu has said that the country can overcome all the challenges confronting the nation with the unity and determination of everybody. He spoke at an event tagged ‘Meet the Mentor Dinner’, organised in his honour by the Progressive Sisters Network (PSN), a pro-Tinubu support group. “As a nation, we are facing some challenges, but we can overcome these challenges. We can find our ways in situations where it seems there is no way. Please let’s work together to build the Nigeria of our dreams together. “I know it is difficult not to look for the easy way in today’s Nigeria, but together with our faith in one another and our nation, we can solve our problems,” he stressed. The presidential candidate attributed the inability to effectively harness the country’s abundant resources as the bane of the nation’s developmental challenges. “We will achieve greatness in this country, let us just believe in ourselves,” Tinubu assured and thanked the organisers of the dinner. Earlier, Progressive Sisters Network (PSN) National Coordinator, Rinsola Abiola, said that after a critical assessment of all the candidates jostling for the country’s highest seat, Tinubu towers far above all, hence their resolve among the women folks in the country to campaign for him. Rinsola, daughter of the winner of the June 12, 1993, presidential election, maintained that the APC flagbearer’s antecedent as the governor of Lagos State made it clear to any Nigerian woman who was still in doubt he deserves her vote. “Tinubu understands that tackling the issue of women’s under-representation in all spheres of life is something that must be done from different angles: political inclusion, economic empowerment, and girl-child education. “Lagos, the state which Tinubu once governed is being managed by his blueprint, also leads the way in legal protection for women,” she said.