From Adanna Nnamani, Abuja Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The E-Commerce sector, particularly direct selling, is essential to eradicating poverty in Nigeria QNET, a digital marketing group has said. The organization, which disclosed this to reporters Wednesday in Abuja, urged Nigerians and Africans at large to embrace the possibilities of the direct selling sector, The Regional General Manager, QNET Sub-Saharan Africa, Biram Fall, advised Nigerians, especially youths to reject claims that QNET is a pyramid scheme and harness the potential it’s portends. He reaffirmed the company’s commitment to the expansion and improvement of the sector on the continent of Africa. “QNET is committed to the growth and development of the African direct-selling business industry and works with local governments to ensure compliance with regulations and laws. Built our partnership with Transblue Nigeria Limited on the need to tap into the Nigerian market’s exuberance in Direct Selling, provide a globally recognised platform for customers and distributors to facilitate sales and marketing, and create genuine entrepreneurial skills among the youth of Nigeria. “Unfortunately, QNET has faced controversies in certain countries, Nigeria included, with allegations of being a pyramid scheme. However, we have consistently and will continue to maintain that we are a legitimate business model”, he stated. In his remarks, Managing Director TRANSBLUE, Abdulhakeem Ajisafe Abiodun, disclosed that QNET in collaboration with Transblue Limited is offering training in financial literacy, business and debt management, among others. According to Abdulhakeem Abiodun, managing director of Transblue, there is a growing need for young people to create jobs in Nigeria in order to spur economic growth. Abiodun, who spoke Wednesday, at a media roundtable in Abuja, noted that technology and innovation had given young people the chance to start new businesses, address regional issues, and have a positive impact on society. According to him, “This partnership enables us to connect every Nigerian to the global network of QNET, which aims to provide a great business opportunity to those who seek a better tomorrow and transform their lives.We want to leverage the technological advancement needed for direct selling to achieve these goals. “Entrepreneurship education, financial literacy, skill development and business management programs are available for young people in Nigeria to build the skills necessary to start and grow their businesses in different areas, including music, fashion, and the arts.” Transblue is a customer service compliance and logistics company, according to Abiodun, who also noted that the company set out to become a part of the solution by bringing to the market top-notch customer service and logistics services as a result of the challenges it saw businesses in the Nigerian marketplace facing. On her part, QNET Group Chief Communications Officer, Ramya Chandrasekaran, disclosed that the company had launched a Direct Selling Disinformation Centre (DSDC) to combat the proliferation of disinformation and misinformation about the direct selling industry and its brand.