From Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has warned that attacks on Igbo electorate and their properties in the forthcoming elections, especially on those voting in states outside the South East, would be met with commensurate action. “We are monitoring all the groups, institutions or individuals that threaten to attack Ndigbo, if they use election and that pretext to attack Ndigbo and their properties nationwide, we are ready to answer adequately and proportionately.” Spokesperson of the group, Emma Powerful stated this in reaction to a comment by a popular Yoruba chief  to deal with the Igbo who do not vote for their own candidates in  the South West. Powerful said though IPOB was not interested in Nigeria’s election, it would, however, not sit idle and watch attacks or abuses of the Igbo who voluntarily want to participate in the Nigerian election. He urged men and women of good conscience in the South West and North  to caution their politicians and traditional rulers against using the Igbo and Biafrans as scapegoats in the upcoming Nigerian election. Said Powerful: “The attention of the global movement and family of the Indigenous People of Biafra under the command and leadership of our  leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu have been drawn to a threat from a monarch in Yorubaland to the effect that they will deal with non-indigenes, especially Ndigbo who don’t vote in the upcoming elections according to their wishes.  “While we Biafrans await a date for referendum, nobody should threaten Ndigbo and Biafrans residing temporarily in other parts of Nigeria for any reason. IPOB wants to state unequivocally that any attack in any part of Nigeria on the Biafran people or the Igbo or their properties on account of the choice of the individuals to support,  or to vote for according to their conviction during this so called election will be met with adequate and commensurate action. “Gone are the days when Ndigbo will be threatened and intimidated during elections. As long as Biafrans have not been given the opportunity to exit Nigeria via a referendum, IPOB will not stand by and watch anyone, Nigerian or non-Nigerian to threaten Biafrans or carry out such threats against us and get away with it.  “Even as IPOB do not wish to be drawn into the politics, nobody has the right to threaten Ndigbo or attempt to compel them to vote for a particular party or candidate.  Any Biafran who wants to vote in this election has the right to vote for any party or candidate of his/her choice, and nobody should  direct or threaten them to vote for a particular party or candidate in their community or state.  “If anyone threatens to attack Ndigbo and Biafrans or non-indigenes resident in their place, rest assured that the people being attacked will not sit and watch their property and life being destroyed and will activate their right to self defence. We are urging Ndigbo, Biafrans and non indigenes everywhere to be prepared to defend their property, family and their lives during and after this election. Do not allow anyone to use you or your family as a sacrificial lamb this time around.  “It is very imperative that we remind those who think highly of themselves and believe they will resort to violence and attack Biafrans that they do not have the monopoly of violence. Until a referendum is conducted and Biafrans exit Nigeria, those who have the habit of threatening and attacking Ndigbo must understand that it will not be business as usual this time around because their lives also will be in danger when they attack others. Ndigbo nationwide must be prepared because they are coming to show us that we don’t belong to Nigeria, while they continue to deny Igbo, Biafrans the right to self determination.”