Dr. Leo Stan Ekeh is not rated as Nigeria’s number one serial digital tycoon for nothing. The tech billionaire is unarguably a visionary who was quick to see that the digital economy would define the world in no distant time. His record of incisive investment and vision to digitalise Nigeria remains unequal. For more than two decades, the Chairman, Zinox Group has been reshaping information and communication technology in Nigeria. Ekeh understands that the success of any nation lies in having accurate and credible data. His patriotic zeal has made him emphasise the significance of the partnership with the government and when some years ago it became imperative to digitalise Nigeria electoral system, it was Ekeh’s Zinox Group that was beckoned at to help revolutionise the election process through the implementation of the Direct Data Capture machines and the card reader technology. These innovations significantly improved the accuracy of the nation’s voter registry and strengthened the credibility of the electoral process in recent years. Again, the billionaire mogul, who will clock 67 on Wednesday February 22, is already on the verge of helping his country to provide the best possible solution for the upcoming national census project later in the year. Recently, Ekeh successfully secured a landmark agreement worth N85 billion ($184.7 million) with the Federal Government through the National Population Commission following its ratification by the Federal Executive Council. The contract awarded to Zinox Group entails the provision of advanced technology components and essential accessories for the upcoming 2023 National Census Project. Spotlight learnt that after an intense and competitive bidding process which pitted Zinox Group against other local and international contenders, Ekeh’s Company was selected as the preferred technical partner for the upcoming census project. He has already handed over a sample of the Personal Digital Assistant (PDA) device to the Chairman, National Population Commission (NPC), Hon. Nasir Kwarra at a brief ceremony in Lagos last week. Ekeh established Zinox Group in 2001 as a pioneer in West Africa’s computer manufacturing and information and communications technology solutions.