From Molly Kilete, Abuja Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Police Service Commission (PSC) has approved the appointment of three Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIG) to the rank of Deputy Inspectors General of Police (DIG). The newly appointed DIGs are expected to fill the vacant posts owe to the retirements of three DIGs representing the North Central, North East and North West geopolitical zones of the country and ensured that the defined succession policy in the Nigeria Police is sustained. Those appointed include AIG Hafiz Mohammed Inuwa, Mustapha Dan- Daura and Aji Ali Janga. AIG Hafiz Mohammed Inuwa, the Force Secretary, will be replacing retired DIG Mustapha Dan- Daura for the North West slot. DIG Dan- Daura retired on the 15th of January this year. AIG Aji Ali Janga from North East will replace DIG Zanna Mohammed Ibrahim who retired on the 26th of November 2022, while AIG Adeleke Adeyinka Bode of North Central will replace DIG Sanusi Lemu who retired on the 31st of January this year. The new appointments according to the PSC head of press and public relations Ikechukwu Ani, were part of the decisions of the reconvened 18th Plenary Meeting of the commission held over the weekend in Abuja. Ani, in a statement, said the Commission suspended the promotion of eight Commissioners of Police to the rank of Assistant Inspectors General and eleven Deputy Commissioners of Police to the next rank of Commissioners due to their failure to appear before it for the mandatory promotion interview. The Commission had sent invitations to the Officers to appear before it for the usual interaction to ascertain their suitability and capability for the new Offices. The Commission expressed surprise at their failure to honour the Invitation especially as the 2023 general elections are just days away. The Commission approved the promotion of ten Assistant Commissioners of Police to the next rank of Deputy Commissioners; 17 Chief Superintendents of Police to Assistant Commissioners and 301 Superintendents of Police to Chief Superintendents. Forty-seven skipped Deputy Superintendents of Police from previous recommendations to the Commission were also promoted to Superintendents of Police while 665 Assistant Superintendents of Police were promoted to Deputy Superintendents of Police. The recommendations for ACP Nwamanna Nelson, SP Iliyas Casmir and SP Alheri Mamman were also endorsed and the officers were promoted to their next ranks after they were absolved of any Pending Disciplinary Matter (PDM). Justice Ogunbiyi charged the newly promoted Officers to give their best to the service of their nation especially now that Nigeria will be going to the polls to elect new leaders. She congratulated and wished the Officers success in their new ranks.