From Molly Kilete, Abuja  The police force headquarters in Abuja, have sounded a warning to private security outfits and vigilante groups to stay away from the upcoming general elections or have themselves to blame. The police said that the two groups are not on the list of security organizations listed to provide security during the elections and warned them to stay away to avoid embarrassment. Force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, made this known at an election security briefing organized by PRNigeria on Wednesday in Abuja. He said the Nigeria Police Force and other security agencies are taking the charge of President Muhammadu Buhari seriously and will deliver as mandated. President Buhari had while commissioning some Police assets on Monday, noted that all eyes were on the police as the future of the country’s democracy depends on the peaceful conduct of the upcoming general elections. The FPRO, taking a cue from the President’s charge, said the synergy among the security operatives ahead of the elections is unparalleled, even as he commended the Chief of Defence Staff(CDS), General Lucky Irabor, for the leadership he is providing to the security agencies. He said “The CDS is providing a lot of leadership and I am happy this time around security agencies are working together. I want to commend the efforts of the CDS. He encourages us a lot and he is everywhere, working round the clock to ensure we give Nigerians the peaceful atmosphere to exercise their voting rights,” he said. Emphasizing that only the Police, the military, and other sister security agencies will be recognized to ensure safety and security during the polls, the Force image maker said that no other local or unofficial security outfit will be allowed to move as there will be strict restrictions on movement on the election days. He encouraged Nigerians to move within a few metres of their polling units so they can easily trek to go and vote as cars may not be allowed to cover kilometers even for the purpose of voting. “So we are working together, we are collaborating for us to have proper security for elections. The Military is coming in to support us but there will be no provision for private security outfits. We believe that if we have proper restrictions on the movement we are 80 percent successful in that election. The movement will be restricted in and out of the states, even those that have immunity are not expected to move out so you will not move out during elections. “The second thing is that there will be security at the polling units to give cover to those voting. We have designed it and the federal government is trying that all officers on the streets are given allowances and even food so that no politician will be able to tempt them to do their bidding. The IGP is working hard to ensure officers and men are well taken care of. “I want to tell Nigerians to take it from us and we will make sure we have a secure election. We will be out there to maintain the peace and not to harass anyone,” he added. He also called on the media to weed out the bad eggs in the profession who are responsible for the fake news, misinformation, and propaganda that are unhealthy for the polity.