..as At Risk Children Progrmmame comes to an end in Nassrawa From Abel Leonard, Lafia President Muhammadu Buhari has said the Federal Government is committed to ensuring full enforcement of laws on the protection of the Nigerian children and the vulnerable groups in the country. Speaking through his Special Adviser to on Social Investment Mrs. Mariam Uwais during the closing ceremony of a three weeks  training of youth facilitators for At Risk Children Programme in Lafia the Nasarawa State capital yesterday. At Risk Children Programme is a federal government initiative aimed at reaching out to the Nigerian children who are disconnected from their families and society especially victims of drugs and substance abuse, the almajiris  and the vulnerable groups. In Nasarawa State, over 650 unemployed youths were engaged in training  to acquire various skills for the implementation as facilitators of the programme where they are expected  to go back to their communities and step down the knowledge to the at Risk Children. Addressing the facilitators, Special Adviser to the President on Social Investment and National Coordinator of At Risk Children Programme,Mrs Mariam Uwais said the federal government will continue to set aside substantial funds for programmes aimed at taking the  Nigerian child off the street. She stated that each of the facilitators who  are  entitled to a  monthly stipend of thirty thousand Naira  was expected to be sending progress reports to government on the at Risk Children they are training. Some of the facilitators Miss Mbewashi Danboyi and Mr Joel Ovey said they were trained in knitting, sawing, shoe making, tie and dye and crop production. Governor Abdullahi Sule represented by the state Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development Hajiya Aisha  Rufa’i noted that the state government was committed to providing necessary resources to ensure success of the Programme. Sule said the position of children in the transmission of Nigeria’s cherished values, traditions and cultural identity as a people, cannot be overstressed. He added  that it is imperative to note that youth represents the most energetic and largely productive segment of our economy, and by extension, support the wellbeing of our aged and infant population. “It is, therefore, imperative to provide adequately for their welfare and also ensure that the needed serene environment is created for them to develop and utilize their innate capacities and abilities to enhance, not only their individual goal, but that of their families, communities and society as a whole.  “Regrettably, the society appeared to neglect and abuse our children, especially those entrusted with the power to ensure effective implementation of their wellbeing.” He however urged the facilitators to ensure credibility and knowledge sharing while thanking participant for spending three weeks in learning all kinds of skills that will in turn help the less previledged people in the society.  “Today’s event, marks the closing ceremony of the Training of Six Hundred and Fifty (650) Youth Facilitators drawn from the 13 Local Government Council and Development Areas of the State.” “This  is because, as facilitator, you are to work in synergy and to also ensure interaction with the beneficiaries of the services and deliverables of the programme at the grassroots.” “I am aware that you have acquired the knowledge and necessary training in various aspects of child welfare, counseling and towards reducing the suffering of children in the state. ” He added