From Olanrewaju Lawal,Birnin Kebbi  Kebbi State government has signed an agreement with the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Ltd(NNPCL) over official take off of production of ethnol bio-fue from Cassava crop.  The tripartite agreement for the take- off ,Under the memorandum of understanding, MOU, Kebbi State through the Kebbi Investment Company is the host community with five percent shares, the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited, NNPCL, has twenty five percent shares while the core investor a private firm , 3D has majority shareholding of Seventy percent.   State Deputy Governor, Colonel(rtd) Samaila Yombe Dabai who signed the agreement on behalf of Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu in Abuja announced confirmed this at Press briefing in the Conference Hall of Cabinet office, Birnin Kebbi. He said Danko Wasagu has been selected for the Bio fuel refinery in view of the suitability of the soill  in the area. Yombe said the company would mobilize to site next week and that Professor Abubakar Muhammad Kaoje who was appointed as Coordinator of the venture has already visited India to inspect the choice of equipment for the Ethanol Production. He expressed gratitude about the multitude of benefits associated with the project to the State , describing it as the first of its kind in Northern Nigeria capable of emptying over 5000 people. The Deputy Governor of the state  said that the project was part of Bagudu’s commitment to industrialize the state stressed  that the project that was initiated five years ago had its agreement signed two days ago in Abuja. Yombe said that the project would boost trade and commerce , as well as bolster the revenue generation of the state and Nigeria, in general . Also speaking,  Prof. Abubakar Muhamme Kaoje, the Coordinator of the Kebbi State Ethanol Bio fuel project said that it will provide no fewer than 5,000 new jobs. Kaoje,the former Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation,informed the general public of the signing of agreement and handing over of the project to the Kebbi State Investments Company, handlers of all the investments of the state government. The University don said:”This all-important project will bring unprecedented dividends of democracy to the people of the state.” According to Prof. Kaoje, there will also be myriad of corporate social responsibility projects to be executed courtesy of the project  He listed them to include provision of primary schools, hospitals and power supply to the various communities in the Zuru Emirate and Danko Wasagu Local Government. Kaoje added that there would also be an array of other CSR projects to be executed in the area saying that, “the core investor has an emotional attachment to Zuru and he will soon swing into action by mobilizing to the site. “The Bio-fuel will be produced from cassava and we have to make sure that the soil there is capable of sustaining production. We are happy to report that the Gwazawa cassava farm is fully operational and it is supporting cassava production across the state.” Kaoje further said that there will be some bye-products like CO2 being used in fire extinguishers and the production of carbonated drinks,including  the production of both industrial and pharmaceutical grade starch . “The company will also be self sustaining in power supply as it will operate independently of the national grid. It will even complement the national grid by supplying power to some of the host communities,” the Coordinator added.