From Tony John, Port Harcourt Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, has said that the slow performance of the Bi-modal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) machine is evidence of poor level of preparation on the part of the Independent Electoral National Commission (INEC) concerning the 2023 general election. Governor Wike expressed his displeasure when he spoke with journalists, shortly after casting his vote at 12.42pm at his Polling Unit 9, Ward 7, Rumueprikom of Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of the state. The governor and his wife, Justice Suzzette Eberechi Nyesom-Wike had returned two hours after they were initially unable to cast their vote due to failure of BVAS machine to accredit them. The governor who first arrived the polling unit at 10.50 am left the venue when the BVAS did not verify him and his wife. When he returned after two hours, the machine was still not functioning optimally. Governor Wike said despite the promise of fixing the identified problem that delayed voting at the polling unit, INEC seemed still not in full control in order to ensure the BVAS machine operated maximally. He said: “Of all the promises made since I left here two hours ago, the BVAS is still not very functional. I don’t want to begin to suspect foul play. But, from reports that I have received from other local governments, it does appear to me that it is the same experience. “And, then, you now wonder why it will be the same experience to Rivers people. I don’t want to have any suspicion yet. But, I don’t think it is quite encouraging.” Wike pointed to how the problem should not be allowed to remain unresolved because that could lead to disenfranchising registered voters in the polling unit and other parts of the state that had similar experience. “My people cannot be disenfranchised. As you can see, I have never done an election where you see this kind of crowd. I believe that they will extend the voting period (time) to 6pm. “Look at the time now; voting ought to have started from 8:30am to 2:30pm. But, we are just starting. So, I’m not happy with the preparedness of INEC as regards the election.” The governor said the voters that had come out were patient, and enduring the scorching sun because they were determined to be part of the process. “The electorate are still staying under the sun to make sure that they exercise their franchise, it is their right to vote. We have also told them that we believe it will be settled, but their patience cannot be taken for granted. “I believe that every Nigerian would want to participate in this particular election. So, INEC should do everything within its powers to make sure that the people vote. If the people don’t vote, they won’t be happy.” Meanwhile, staunch supporters of the presidential candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Rivers State, Tony Okocha and Austin Opara, respectively, have complained about late commencement of voting in Port Harcourt, the state capital. Okocha tasked INEC on the need to improve the performance of the BVAS machine, which was slow in capturing the voters. “I took my turn and presented myself for voting. The process was seemingly seamless though it was a bit delayed because of the BVAS machine and inability to capture fast. He urged INEC to extend the time for the voting, stressing that 8.30 to 2.30 is not good enough, saying that given the situation in the country today, people should be allowed to vote by extending the voting time to 5pm. “A period stipulated for the election 8.30am to 2.30pm and then the BVAS machine is unable to capture fast on one person, you will now know how many persons will be captured within the period under review. “INEC should do more on the BVAS machine with respect to increasing the speed. The BVAS machine and all of those we appraised worked perfectly at the point when they were just being test-run in two states. But, now that all the states are involved in the election, we are now seeing lapses. So, whatever it is, INEC will need to do better; that’s what they have told us.” He commended INEC for the introduction of BVAS machine which has tackled the issue of ballot snatching and voting materials. “What I saw today, is an advancement to what used to be. At the field, I didn’t see anybody carrying the BVAS; I didn’t see ballot paper snatched away. It means that lastly, the people’s vote will count. If they actually try to make the BVAS machine a little faster, so that it can capture people.” He commended Nigerians for their participation in the exercise, notwithstanding the current cash swap policy, saying the best candidate should emerge victorious. “The cash swap policy that we have in Nigeria is biting. The truth of the matter is that Nigerians are suffering. The people have shown some concern by coming out en mass to vote. That policy of new notes swapping is obnoxious, it never worked. My expectation is that a better candidate should win.” Similarly, Opara of the PDP in a text message to one of the journalists, simply said: “It’s (election) peaceful in PHALGA (Port Harcourt City Local Government Area). The only problem is that voting stated late about 11.30am. Meanwhile, Sunday Sun gathered there was no voting in Degema and Bakana communities in Degema Local Government Area of Rivers State, as INEC ad hoc staff complained of lack of sufficient  boats to convey materials to the coastal communities. They also alleged that security operatives refused to accompany them to the few boats available following claims of suspected thugs along the sea routes. There was an unconfirmed report of a pregnant woman identified as Ruth Osah and a member of Emohua Local Vigilante Service (EMOLVIS), Mark Orduize, who were reportedly killed in Ubimini community Ward 12 in Emohua Local Government Area of Rivers State yesterday morning. The report also claimed that another EMOLVIS personnel was injured and two houses of the group members burnt,  which led to cancellation of election in three centres in the area. However, the turn out of voters was impressive and there was no security threats compared to what was experienced in past general elections in the state. Also, there was heavy presence of soldiers, police and other security agencies in the state.