•Ugwuanyi, Ortom, Egwu, Elumelu, Gaya, Onyejeocha, Chinedum Orji lose  • Buhari receives NASS elections winners in Daura constituency Senate President, Ahmed Lawan; chief whip, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu; former governors Godswill Akpabio, Danjuma Goje, Ibrahim Dankwambo and Abdulaziz Yari of Akwa Ibom, Gombe and Zamfara states respectively were declared winners of the senatorial elections, yesterday, by the Independent National Electoral Commision (INEC). Notable losers in the National Assembly polls were Benue and Enugu State governors, Samuel Ortom and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi as well as former Ebonyi governor, Sam Egwu, Deputy Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Nkeiruka Onyejeocha and Rep minority leader, Ndudi Elumelu. In Yobe North Senatorial District election in Yobe,  Lawan of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who got a late nod by the Supreme Court to contest scored 91,318 votes to defeat Sheriff Abdullahi of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Garba Umar of  the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP), who scored 22,849  and 7,210 votes respectively. •Kalu wins in Abia  Senate Chief Whip and candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Orji Uzor Kalu won his re-election bid for the  Abia North senatorial district.   INEC’s returning officer, Chinedu Nnamdi,  said the former governor polled a total of 30,805 votes to defeat Nnamdi Iroh of Labour Party (LP) who polled 27,540 votes and Mao Ohuabunwa of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who had 15, 175 votes. •Akpabio returns in Ikot Ekpene  Former Akwa Ibom State governor  and APC candidate for Akwa Ibom North West (Ikot Ekpene) senatorial district, Godswill Akpabio, beat Emmanuel Enoidem of the PDP, who polled 69,838 votes.  The PDP, however won the other two senatorial and seven House of Reps seats. Speaker of Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, Aniekan Bassey Etim of the PDP polled 98, 634 votes to beat  Dr. Emaeyak Ukpong of the APC with 43,294 votes in the Akwa Ibom North East senatorial district,  while Dr. Ekong Sampson of the PDP would be the new senator for Akwa Ibom South (Eket) senatorial district  having polled 79,327 to beat his APC opponent who scored 33,256. PDP also won seven  of the 10 federal constituencies of Uyo, Itu, Eket, Etinan, Ikot Abasi, Ukanafun and Oron, while the APC won one being Ikot Ekpene, YPP one being Ikono, while the Abak constituency  remains inconclusive. •Yari wins Zamfara West Senate  Former Governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari, has won Zamfara West Senate seat under the APC. The Returning Officer, Zamfara West Senatorial Election, Prof. Rufus Tinuola said Yari scored 147,346 votes against his closest opponent of the PDP, Bello S-Fagon, who scored 58,832 votes. He said other candidates Ibrahim Musa of ADC scored 150 votes, Ahmad Lawali of APP scored 75 votes and Aliyu Yahaya of LP had 111 votes. •Goje, Dankwambo win in Gombe  Former governors of Gombe State, Danjuma Goje and Ibrahim Dankwambo won their bids to represent their senatorial districts.    Goje of the APC was declared winner for Gombe Central Senatorial district while Dankwambo of the PDP emerged winner of Gombe North Senatorial election. Anthony Siyako of PDP clinched Gombe South Senatorial seat. The PDP swept five of the six federal constituencies leaving only one seat for APC. •Ortom loses, Moro wins Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom of the PDP lost  to Titus Zam of the APC in the contest for Benue North West Senatorial District. Zam polled 143,151 votes to defeat Ortom who got 106,888 votes and Mark Gbilah of LP who polled 51,151 votes. Meanwhile, Senator representing Benue South Senatorial, Abba Moro of the PDP has won his re-election bid. He polled 76,459 votes to defeat his closest rival Daniel Onjeh of APC who polled 59, 595 and Joe Ojobo of LP who polled 40,194 votes The APC swept eight out of the 11 House of Representative seats in Benue State while the PDP won one. The incumbent PDP House of Representative member representing Makurdi/Guma Federal Constituency, Benjamin Mzondu lost to the Green Chambers. Mzondu who polled 43, 803 votes was defeated by Dickson Tarkighir of the APC who polled 49,511 votes. •LP floors PDP, Ugwuanyi loses  LP won all NASS positions in Enugu North. For the senate, Mr. Okey Ezea defeated Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of the PDP. The Returning Officer, Prof. Chukwuemeka Ubaka, said Ezea scored 104,492 to defeat Ugwuanyi who polled 46,948 votes. The APC candidate, Mr. Eze Simon, came third with 6,816 votes. •Ex-gov Egwu loses third term bid First governor of Ebonyi State, Dr. Sam Egwu, yesterday lost his bid to return to the Senate for the third term. Egwu who represents Ebonyi North Senatorial district in the National Assembly, was first elected into the Senate in 2015 under the platform of the PDP. He was re-elected in 2019. However his attempt to get a third term failed as he lost to the APC candidate, Onyekachi Nwebonyi. Nwebonyi, former PDP chairman scored 65,863 to defeat the LP candidate, Mr. Anselem Enigwe, who scored 42,283 votes.  Egwu scored 26,569 votes Also, former chairman of the APC, Eze Nwachukwu won in Ebonyi/Ohaukwu federal constituency with 22, 794 votes to defeat his closest rival, Ndubudisi Agbo of LP who scored 14,168 votes. INEC equally declared the APC candidate for Abakaliki/Izzi, Emmanuel Uguru, winner after scoring 41,771. Professor Amos Nworie, INEC Retuning Officer said LP candidate scored 30,877 votes. •LP wins Edo South  Neda Imasuen, of LP was declared winner of the Edo South Senatorial District.  He polled 167,250 votes to defeat  Mathhew Iduoriyekemwen of the PDP and Valentine Asuen of the APC who scored  61,749 and 57,933, respectively.  AA scored 369 votes, ADC, 1909, ADP, 1,022, NNPP, 2,279, NRM scored 581, SDP got 400 while the ZLP scored 2,670 votes.  •Reps deputy chief whip, Abia speaker suffer defeat Deputy Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Nkeiruka Onyejeocha and Speaker, Abia State House of Assembly, Chinedum Orji hopes to represent their constituents in the National Assembly were dashed. Onyejeocha who contested the House of Representatives seat for Isuikwuato/Umunneochi federal constituency on the platform of APC was defeated by Amobi Ogah of LP.  Ogah is younger brother of  former  minister of state for mines and steel, Uche Ogah.  In the result announced by the Returning Officer for the area, Mrs. Nneoma Nnochiri, Ogah scored 11,768 votes to beat Onyejeocha who had 8,752 while PDP candidate, Liveth Ofoegbu got 6,760 votes. •Nwoko wins Delta North Business mogul, Ned Nwoko was declared winner of Delta North senatorial election. Returning officer for the senatorial election, Dr. Mrs Josephine Anene-Okeakwa, said Nwoko of the PDP scored 92,514 votes to defeat Ken Kanma of Labour Party who polled 86,121 votes. •Barau, Sumaila win Kano North, South senate seats Former aide to President Muhammad Buhari, Abdularaham Kawu Sumaila, won Kano South Senatorial district. The former House of Representatives member and founder, Al Istikamah University, defeated chairman of Senate Committee on INEC,  Kabiru Ibrahim Gaya. Kawu polled 319, 857 votes against Gaya, a candidate of the APC, who polled  192,518 votes. In a related development, Senator Barau Jilbrin of the APC polled 234, 652 votes to defeat his rival of the New Nigeria Peoples Party, Dr. Abdullahi  Baffa who polled  177, 014 to retain his seat.   •Kebbi PDP threatens legal action against INEC for withholding Aliero’s senatorial results The PDP in Kebbi State has threatened to take legal action against INEC for allegedly withholding the results of the Central Senatorial results. Spokesperson of the aggrieved party’s members, Sanni Dododo, stated this while addressing newsmen at the collation centre of Kebbi Central Senatorial district election results in Birnin Kebbi. Out of eight LGAs that constituted the district, seven council results were said to have been gathered while that of Birnin Kebbi, which has 15 wards was nowhere to be found.  Kebbi Central Senatorial district election is being contested for by Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu of APC and Senator Muhammadu Adamu Alier of PDP. •PDP Abdulkarim loses second term bid Mr. Umaru Jeremiah of the APC won Akwanga/ Wamba/ Nassarawa Eggon federal constituency with 38,430 votes. He defeated the incumbent, Abdulkarim Usman, who scored 19, 681 votes. Reacting to results, Jeremiah dedicated his victory to God Almighty and people of the constituency. •Reps minority leader, Elumelu loses  Attempt by Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Ndudi Elumelu, to return to the Green Chamber for fourth term has hit the rock. Elumelu who represents Aniocha/Oshimili constituency lost to candidate of LP, Mr. Ngozi Okolie, who polled 53,879 votes across the four local government areas to defeat Elumelu who polled 33,456 voted. •PDP wins 9 NASS polls in Adamawa The PDP won nine National Assembly seats in Adamawa. Prof. Mohammed Mele, state Returning Officer, announced this at the end of results collated from 21 local government areas. Mele said two out of the three senatorial zones were won by the PDP, with one clinched by the APC. Also, seven of the eight federal constituencies were won by PDP, while APC got one seat. •Ojogo ousts incumbent in Ondo  Former Politics Editor of the Daily Independent and Leadership Newspapers, Mr. Donald Ojogo, trounced incumbent member of the House of Representatives,  Kolade Akinjo to win the election seat for the Ilaje/Ese-Odo Federal Constituency, Ondo State. Ojogo, who is candidate of the APC polled 26,306, while Akinjo of the PDP scored 22,390 votes. •Senate Deputy Whip wins Niger LGAs for Tinubu/Shettima Senate Deputy Chief Whip, Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi, has won the local government areas in Borgu Kingdom for the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the presidential election. The lawmaker who represents Niger North senatorial district in the Ninth Assembly is also the National Coordinator of Project 774 For Tinubu/Shettima 2023. Project 774 is a National Support Group for the realisation of Tinubu/Shettima presidency through grassroots mobilisation across the various local governments in the country.  Sabi Abdullahi, in his polling unit, 001 Jahi Ground in New Bussa, secured 290 votes for the APC out of a total number of 383 valid votes cast. The election result was certified by INEC’s presiding officer, Muhammad Dauda. While PDP scored 64 votes, NNPP got 15 and LP 4 votes, respectively. In addition, Sabi Abdullahi ensured a landslide victory for Tinubu in the local governments in Borgu. •Buhari receives NASS elections winners in Daura constituency President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday evening received winners of the Senate and House of Representatives elected to represent the Daura constituency in his country home. A  statement by Garba Shehu, said the president stressed the importance for  the lawmakers to respect the voters and make them feel important.  “If you don’t, they will wait in ambush for you in the next election. Depending on how you deal with them, they will keep you in office, or they will send you packing.” He congratulated the Senator-elect, Nasiru Sani who obtained 174,062 votes, to beat the incumbent, Ahmed Babba Kaita who had defected to the PDP following his defeat in the primary elections. Senator Kaita fell short by more than 10,000 votes. President Buhari also welcomed the election of Aminu Jamo, House of Representatives member-elect for Daura/Sandamu/Mai Adua Federal Constituency who defeated his PDP opponent by more than 10,000 votes.  The National Legal Adviser of the APC, Ahmed El-Marzuq, who led the elected representatives, said the good showing of the party was owed largely to progress recorded in the Senatorial zone under the Buhari presidency.  El-Marzuq cited several projects, which he said had enhanced education, entrepreneurship, social development and the development of human capital in the area. The National Legal Adviser presented copies of results to the President, to which Buhari expressed his appreciation.