By Sunday Ani Media mogul, Mo Abudu, alongside Betty Irabor, Funmi Iyanda and scores of other prominent Nigerian professionals in the media, finance, entertainment, human rights and other sectors have confirmed their readiness to attend and speak at the 2023 Linda Ikeji’s Self-made Woman Conference in partnership with The Black Mentor. Abudu, who is the CEO of Ebonylife Media would be the keynote speaker, while others expected to speak are publisher and author, Betty Irabor, TV icon, Funmi Iyanda, comedian and social media influencer, Anita ‘Real Warri Pikin’ Asuoha, and finance gurus, Tomie Balogun and Sola Adesakin A statement by the media team of Wealth Flow LLC, a company owned by The Black Mentor, noted that the US based mindset coach and investor is sponsoring Linda Ikeji’s Self-Made Woman Conference, which is expected to be Africa’s biggest Women Conference, in partnership with Mr. Joseph Nantomah whose vision is to globally unveil wealth creation access to people across the world. According to the statement, the Conference is a non-profit initiative, committed to discovering talents, rendering mentorship and financial support to women with entrepreneurial skills and other potentials. The Conference, which was kick-started in 2013, has hundreds of women across states in Nigeria already empowered. It stated that the forthcoming 2023 edition of the conference which is already declared as the number  one wealth building conference for women in Nigeria, would inspire participants, discover more creative minds, train aspiring entrepreneurs, and also provide financial empowerment for women with entrepreneurial skills who submit feasible business plans right at the event. Part of the statement read: “This year’s edition of the Self-made Woman Conference (SMWC) is slated to hold this Saturday, February 4, at the Balmoral Hall of the Federal Palace Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos, by 10am. “The event will equally feature activities like lectures, training, question and  answer sessions, including breakfast, lunch and entertainment for participants with an adjusted capacity to accommodate and empower more entrants, with no registration fee attached.” It described Nantomah as the number one African-American mindset coach and quoted him to have encouraged the general public to be part of this year’s conference as the edition promises to create a huge impact and value in the lives of women in Nigeria. “Joseph Nantomah expresses happiness over his several contributions to human capital development and giving back to his country of birth, Nigeria, through the sponsorship of the Self-made Woman Conference 2023,” the statement added.