There was almost stampede, yesterdays, at Owo and Amagunze communities, headquarters of Amankanu and Nkanu East Central Development Centres in Nkanu East Local Government Area of Enugu State as mammoth crowds, numbering in thousands, took over various roads and streets to welcome the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Dr. Peter Mbah, to the town-hall meetings initiated by the candidate to interface with the people living in the state.  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The overwhelming crowd could be seen adorned with colourful uniforms, glamorous outfits, cultural regalia, including masquerades, cultural troupes, wielding solidarity placards, support insignias, PDP umbrellas, posters with different support messages, chanting in solidarity of the homecoming of the governorship hopeful.  It took hours to bring the celebrating people under control even as they said Dr. Mbah’s homecoming was a blessing to the council area, and that he deserved to be given a cheering and rousing reception.  In order to show that Mbah and the party would not lose a single vote in the council area, the excited crowd paraded the arena with their permanent voter’s cards (PVCs), displaying them and repeatedly renting the air with the songs of victory and triumph for the state.  While speaking, the elated Chairman of the local government, Okechukwu Edeh, said the intimidating and overwhelming crowds were understandable because of their firm belief, confidence, resolute and faith in Mbah’s uncommon capacity and peerless leadership skills to spur quantum leap and transform the state into an industrial, technologically driven state which will serve as a source of inspiration to other states. Still rehashing the massive display of endorsement by the large turnout of the communities, the chairman noted that the project belonged to them, and the people had already shown that they’d taken ownership of the project, adding that he was not surprised by the town-hall meeting-turned reception. Appreciating Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for upholding the principle of equity, fairness and justice through the existing zoning formula in the state, the council boss said the people of the area would forever remain grateful. “I want to specially appreciate the performing Governor of Enugu State, His Excellency, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, for upholding the principle of equity, fairness and justice. We are happy and we’re grateful for his kind gesture,” he said. Okechukwu further restated the readiness and commitment of the council to deliver every single vote from the area to Mbah’s election, assuring that the dream to produce the next governor will be a reality on March 11.  He extended his appreciation to other local government areas for the massive support and laudable solidarity the governorship candidate has been enjoying from them, saying the task before the people was to ensure they come out en masse with their PVCs and queue behind the PDP on the day of election. In their separate remarks at Owo town and Amagunze, the administrators of the development centres,. Edeh Nweze and Hon. Uche Mbah, Member representing Nkanu East in the House of Assembly,  Paul Nnajiofor, his would-be successor, Okey Mbah, House of Representatives Member representing Nkanu East/Nkanu West Federal Constituency, Nnolim Nnaji, and spokesperson for the development area, Ejike Ani, expressed their gratitude to the people for showing that the project belongs to them by taking over the town through their huge population.  They stressed that Mbah’s popular acceptance and bumper support among his people and by extension, the entire state, was as a result of his unparalleled, distinctive and outstanding track records in the private and public sectors where he was able to prove his leadership mettle and managerial superiority over his contemporaries.