From Taiwo Oluwadare, Ibadan Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. A sociopolitical group, Ade Ori Okin has told Former Minister of State for FCT, Jumoke Akinjide to stop parading herself as coordinator for Atiku Abubakar Campaign Organisation in Oyo State. The group stated this in a press statement made available to journalists on Wednesday to react to an interview granted by Akinjide in the Sunday Tribune newspaper where she positioned herself as the brain behind the campaign for Alhaji Atiku Abubakar in the state. The group in the statement signed by Agboola Alphonso also frowned at a statement that the campaign for Atiku started late in the state owing to the feud between PDP presidential candidate and G5 governors. According to Ade Ori Okin group, the former Deputy Governor in the state, Hazeem Gbolarumi has been campaigning vigorously for the party’s presidential flagbearer even before he was given a letter to certify him as coordinator for Atiku Abubakar Campaign Organisation in the state. “We as a group loyal to Hazeem Gbolarumi cannot continue to keep mute over the act of parading yourself as the coordinator in Oyo State. In the interview that you granted Nigerian Tribune on Sunday, you stated that there was no campaign committee for Atiku in the state and also saying that it was your initiative to take up a campaign in Oyo State. “Our reply to you is that you know too well that Hazeem Gbolarumi is the coordinator in Oyo State while your group, The Mandate and other support groups are under his coordination in the state. “We are surprised when your supposed group suddenly becomes a campaign organisation that now has its own campaign committee. We are here to state clearly that we are aware of your desperation and how you’re secretly working with the state governor, Seyi Makinde and other top politicians to usurp our leader and take his position as state coordinator. “We also want to state that Gbolarumi has the most robust political structure in the state bequeathed to him by late political sage, Chief Ariyibi Adedibu and we felt you’re jealous of him over this and Atiku himself knows it. We are also aware of your plan to hijack this political structure to remain more relevant in political space in the state,” the statement reads.