From Magnus Eze, Enugu A leading group of Igbo professionals from across the globe, Nzuko Umunna, has thrown its weight behind the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, ahead next Saturday’s election. It said the decision to endorse the former Anambra State governor was predicated on his track record of competence in governance and the need for justice, equity and fairness in Nigeria. In a statement by its President, Prof. Chinedu Nebo and Secretary, Dr. Uju Agomoh, on Wednesday, Nzuko Umunna, noted that it was not morally right in a nation clamouring for unity, equity and fairness for a Northerner to succeed a Northerner, or for a Muslim to succeed a Muslim after eight years of occupying the post of President, adding that it is socially and politically unacceptable. The group detailed its decision thus: “Nigeria has never had it this bad since our independence some 62 years ago. The whopping national debt profile, the crumbling infrastructure network, the apathetic medical and educational sectors, and the unbearably chaotic insecurity situation have placed an unprecedented level of depression, dismay, despair, and despondency upon the entire populace. “The level of ineptitude in governance is alarming. Thankfully, Nigerians have a chance to alter all these horrendous maladies through our votes. The forthcoming elections have the capacity to make or break Nigeria, especially at the presidential level. Voters are encouraged to answer the following questions before deciding on whom to vote for at the presidential level. “If you had a business enterprise, who among the candidates would you like to appoint as your Managing Director or CEO? If you have a huge wealth, who among them can you trust to secure it or invest it to yield maximum returns? “Who among the candidates can you entrust your children’s education and future in his hands? Who is the most credible in the whole pack? Who among the candidates has been found to be free of corruption and criminal enrichment through misappropriation of public funds? “Who amongst the Presidential candidates is qualified to be President using the parameters of justice, equity, and fairness because his geopolitical Zone has not produced a President of Nigeria in our political dispensation? “From all indications, it is clear that one and only one of the candidates of the three frontrunner Presidential candidates qualified in all the counts adumbrated above.  “Providentially, the same candidate is the most competent, articulate, knowledgeable, and robustly healthy. His name is Peter Obi, whose running mate is also a star technocrat, an astute business mogul, and a celebrated educationist. They further stated that in endorsing Peter Obi for president, the group was not endorsing any other candidate or political party for any other positions at the Federal and State levels during this electoral cycle.