From Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The National Coalition for Unity and Peace has tasked candidates running in the February 25 presidential polls and their respective political parties to honour the Peace Accord they signed on Wednesday, by ensuring that their supporters conduct themselves peacefully before, during and after the election. The coalition stated this in a statement jointly signed by former Senate President, Ken Nnamani and former member of the House of Representatives, Cairo Ojuogboh, protem chairman and protem secretary general, respectively, and read by the latter at a press briefing in Abuja on Thursday. It charged the candidates to educate their supporters on the need for a peaceful election, stating that there is a need for them to understand that there is a big difference between opinion polls and actual election results. The coalition noted that “the candidates and their political parties should not just end their quest for peace at the signing of the peace accord, but should take a step further to ensure that their supporters are educated on the need for peaceful polls and peaceful Nation. “They should send a strong message to their supporters all over the country to ensure that they conduct themselves properly, during the election and avoid any form of violence during and after the election. “Opinion poll is not the actual poll it can be deceptive supporters should not be carried away by it. Opinion poll cannot equate result of the real poll and therefore be taken with a pinch of salt because if not properly handled could result in post-election violence by party supporters.” The coalition, while reiterating that its objective is to help douse tension in the aftermath of the polls, said political leaders should advise their supporters to shun violence and explore due process in expressing whatever misgivings they may have about the outcome of the election. “We should be mindful of the fact that no nation develops without peace, and if the country is in crisis, the best of leaders will find it difficult to govern, so it is very important to give peace a chance whatever the outcome of the election. “There are various dispute mechanisms put in place in this country capable of mitigating whatever crisis may come out during and after the election. These mechanisms should be allowed to play their roles instead of taking the law into our hands. “The court is the last hope of the common man so says the adage. If there is any way we feel uncomfortable as a result of the outcome of the election the doors of the court are always open and they are accessible to everybody to bare their minds.”