From Magnus Eze, Enugu Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Alaigbo Development Foundation (ADF) has restated its endorsement of Peter Obi and his running mate, Datti Baba-Ahmed for the Presidency of Nigeria, ahead of Saturday’s presidential election. The group charged stakeholders in the South East especially traditional rulers and religious leaders, town unions as well as other opinion leaders, to ensure that the poll was peaceful in the zone. In a communique read to newsmen in Enugu by ADF President, Prof Uzodimma Nwala, the group noted that the election was so critical to the future of Ndigbo and Nigerians in general. In the communique jointly signed by Dr Onyi Gbujie, Deputy Secretary, Prof. Ukachukwu Awuzie, Treasurer, Dr JC Chukwuokolo, Chairman, ADF Enugu State Chapter, and Bishop Obi Onubogu, Chairman, BOT as well as Archbishop Chijioke Nwaobia, BOT member, among others, they stated that the use of force in enthroning good governance and democracy in the society had failed. So, the only option left for Nigerians was a political struggle through democratic means. “Consequently, those who preach election boycott or election disruption of the current electoral process are not doing so out of a mature understanding of the nature of the political challenges facing us and our neighbours in the Nigerian Federation. “Yes, it is true that a people may boycott an election under certain political situations, especially under situations of utter hopelessness. This is not the case in the Nigerian federation of the moment,” ADF counselled. ADF also urged people from other parts of the country to wake up and mobilize the youths and all and sundry to ensure that people freely and effectively participated in the elections. It further saluted Mr Peter Obi for his courage, sagacity and vision for a new Nigeria, noting his tireless efforts in the bid to champion the new order that the youths and all patriotic forces in the country are yearning for and therefore driving along with him. It, then, called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure that “there is no ‘mago mago’ in the conduct of the forthcoming election,” saying that “Only a free, fair and credible election can guarantee the continued existence of Nigeria as a Federal Republic.”