…says Atiku most prepared candidate to succeed President Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Paul Orude Bauchi Former Speaker of the House of Representatives Yakubu Dogara, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari’s efforts aimed at curbing vote-buying ahead of the 2023 general elections. Dogara said although he is not uninformed or unaffected by the hardship caused by the Naira redesigned and swap policy he pleaded with Nigerians to endure it for a few weeks as a sacrifice for a free, fair and credible elections. He spoke Friday in Yola at a Town Hall meeting organised by Atiku/Okowa campaigning organisation with the theme: “Overcoming the Fears of Same Faith Presidential Ticket 2023.” “I want to specifically commend President Buhari over the initiative to curb vote buying in the forthcoming general elections,” he stated. “I am not uninformed of nor unaffected by the hardship caused by the Naira redesign and swap policy but I want to plead with Nigerians to endure it for these few weeks as sacrifice for a free, fair and credible election.   “”It’s a life lesson: that just as injury has pains so also recovery has pains. But if we have to get healed, we have to endure the pains. I urge us all to trudge on in the hope that these pains may truly be the birth pangs we may endure for a New Nigeria to be born” The former Speaker called on the  Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to ensure the redesigned notes were made available to people and urged all Nigerians to endure the pains for few more weeks for their votes to count and for them to elect a president we truly deserve.  “Let me emphatically say that the President has the sole constitutional powers over currency matters and all those busy running their mouths because they have been denied the opportunity to deploy the ill- gotten naira they have stashed to buy votes, that they are committing treason,” Dogara opined. “The president is absolutely right not to have given in to the greed of the few against the needs of the many. “While the president is right to have acted on what he knows and in the best interest of the country, his traducers are petty, unpatriotic, treacherous and grossly irresponsible.   “Therefore, Mr. President deserves our thunderous applause. Whoever writes it, history will be kind to Mr. President if he doesn’t give in or give up on his resolve to ensure a free, fair and credible democratic election no matter the cost on the 25th February, 2023 as scheduled by INEC” He  expressed concern that the country was on the precipice needs a President would hit the ground running from day one. He argued that the Presidential  candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Abubakar Atiku is the best in terms of readiness to hit the ground running from day one. I ” Atiku Abubakar, the Wazirin Adamawa is a statesman like no other and a father in every sense of the word, Abba,” Dogara argued. “He is a demonstrable source that gives life to everything around him.  Give him pure water and he will turn it to Farro water. Show him a Primary school and he will turn it into a world class university Show him a jetty and he will turn it into a world class port. Give him a bull and a heifer and just few years and he will give you a herd”  Dogara said  Buhari”s successor is a leader that must have steady hand to steer the country from.its volatile nature. “We need a hand on which nothing dies not the hand that spills everything that is placed on it if we do not want our collective national destiny to be spilled,” he said “We need a grounded leader not a feckless pretender who has become a perfect gift to every level of comedy both local and internationally. By our votes, let us send a strong and clear message to those who want to foist this tasteless joke on us that Nigeria is no Comedy Cellar or Viva Blackpool” He argued further that for Nigeria to experience speedy national healing and recovery, Nigerians should vote for Atiku “To end terrorism, banditry, insurgency, kidnap for ransom and sundry acts of criminality, let us vote for Atiku “To rebuild shattered trust and strengthen national unity, let us vote for Atiku “To bring order to national chaos, let us vote for Atiku  “To end religious divisions and engender religious harmony, let us vote Atiku “to enthrone merit over mediocrity and nepotism, let us vote Atiku”