From Paul Osuyi, Asaba Director-General, Delta State People’s Democratic Party, PDP Campaign Council, Funkekeme Solomon at the weekend debunked reports in a section of the media that his kinsmen in Ojobo community, Burutu Local Government Area, have dumped him in preference for the All Progressive Congress (APC). Mr. Solomon who visited the community and was received by hoards of supporters said Ojobo remained a strong hold of the PDP, adding that his kinsmen were too civilised to fall for the antics of APC. “Where are the kinsmen said to have left the PDP? In the first place there were no defections from the PDP in the community. Defection to where? The people of Ojobo community, Burutu Ward 05 are too civilized for such mistakes. “They can’t embrace more poverty, insecurity and underdevelopment into their lives,” he said. The PDP chieftain who was coerced into over ten kilometers match round the community by his people in solidarity with his leadership, said the party would soon embark on unit to unit campaign. “This is Ward 05. You can see the dominion of PDP in this community and in this ward. You are a witness to the joy and enthusiasm of the people. “Everybody acknowledge PDP. Men, women and youth are on the same page as long as PDP is concerned in Ojobo community. And that is a show of acceptance of me as the leader of the community. I am strongly connected to this community. I grew up in this community. “We just tested the waters to show that Ojobo is traditionally and predominately PDP. You can see the over ten kilometers walk with the people with stop over in several rest houses at the bank of the river. “The next stage is to embark on unit to unit campaign and we must visit the 29 units,” Solomon stated. He decried the insensitivity of the APC on the nation’s challenges, and called on Nigerians to reject the party in the forthcoming general elections. Solomon said APC should show remorse and apologize to the people for broken promises, and stop going around telling lies and deceiving gullible Nigerians. He stated that no section of the society or sector of the nation’s economy was spared by the APC maladministration, noting that Atiku-Okowa ticket remains the way forward to recover the country from the threshold of total collapse. The campaign DG urged the people of Ojobo community and indeed all Nigerians to reject any form of inducement or unholy alliance with the APC, stressing that never again shall darkness triumph over light. Chief Funkekeme Solomon charged eligible voters to cast their votes for Atiku-Okowa, Sheriff Oborevwori and all PDP candidates for the elections.