The Commissioner of Police in Anambra, Mr Echeng Echeng, has called on citizens, especially youths, to shun all forms of violence under any guise. Eceheng made the call while speaking at a conference organised by Federation of African Law Students (FALAS) at Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University, Igbariam, Anambra. He urged citizens not to make themselves handy tools to politicians who wished to cause crises because of some policies they viewed to be unfavorable. Echeng, represented by CSP Ewere Okundaye, in charge of the Special Investigation Bureau, said the best way to protest was to take advantage of the general elections by voting the candidates they thought would give them the leadership they yearned for. “Some of the policies may be coming with some pain and discomfort but destroying public or private property is not the best, you do not have to kill anybody, you do not have to kill those who are working to secure you. “We are close to the election, use it to decide the next set of leaders you want, protest with your votes and use it for what is reasonably alright for you,” he said. The Police Chief also condemned jungle justice where suspected criminals were mobbed and lynched without fair hearing. He said suspects should be subjected to law, no matter the provocation, as jungle justice bred lawlessness. Prof. Greg Nwakoby, the Vice Chancellor of Chukwuemeka Ojukwu University, the host institution, said Nigeria was still a country under a Constitution which should be protected by all arms of government. Nwakoby, a legal luminary, called on the judiciary to make judgments that were consistent with natural justice and not to suit the political interest of some people. He described the presidential order and judicial pronouncements on the redesign of the Naira as conflicting and confusing to the citizens, adding that all arms of government should synergise to make policies that promote lives of the people. The Vice Chancellor told the young lawyers to be bold and defend their profession anywhere they found themselves as that was the only way they could speak to power in defense of the masses or oppressed. Dr Onyeka Ibezim, Deputy Governor of Anambra who was the Special Guest at the event urged African Law Students to continue to exchange ideas and work together to develop their profession. Ibezim, who extended the good wishes of Gov. Chukwuma Soludo said Anambra Government, would continue to deliver good governance and be responsible to the masses. Mr Odira Ezeh, Head of Diplomacy and External Affairs, FALAS and a student of COOU, said the conference had the theme: “Election and National Development in Africa.” It was to enrich intellectual discuss ahead of the general elections in Nigeria. Ezeh said the occasion was also used to officially Inaugurate Federation of African Law Students’ Secretariat in Nigeria as well as its 2023 diary. (NAN)