From David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for Anambra South senatorial zone in the 2023 general election, Chief Chris Uba, has received the royal blessings of His Royal Highness, Kenneth Orizu III, Igwe Nnewi and the nod of the three Obis in the industrial community. Chief Uba who on Wednesday stormed Nnewi with his entourage including his campaign Director General, Hon Amobi Chikwendu said he had made Governors, National Assembly members and other political office holders in the past, some of whom he said never did well in their assignments. He said he had decided to go this time to the National Assembly by himself to attract the democratic dividends he had expected from those he empowered in the past to do who could not deliver. “I’m here to ask for your mandate to go to the Senate. Nnewi is my second home. Some of the people I helped to go there could not deliver the expected dividends to our people. So, let me go there and do it myself. I’ll never fail you because I feel your pulse. “If I win, I will still come back here to thank you. I won’t forget or disappoint you. Those I helped never told us the truth. That’s why I want to go there. You will see something different. Your Constituency money will be used for your projects,” he promised. The Igwe Nnewi, who was the first host of Uba blessed him. The Igwe said that Uba had tried a lot in politics and wished him well. Uba was also blessed by the Obi of Uruagu, Afam Obi; Obi of Umudim, Benneth Okafor and Obi Nnewichi, George Onyekaba. Uba told his guests and his party faithful who came out in their numbers for the campaign that the PDP did very well when it was in power and expressed the need to give the party another opportunity to take over. The Obis promised him their support along with their subjects and expressed the hope that he would not fail them. Uba was promised a block vote at Uruagu. Addressing Uba and his entourage Obi Onyekaba said: “Uba is a kingmaker. We are happy to receive him. He has the capacity to put and remove someone. We will support him. He later introduced leaders of the ten major markets in Nnewi to Uba and said that Uba will achieve his electoral ambition. Other contestants in the entourage were Hon Joel Ndubueze to represent Nnewi North, Nnewi South and Ekwusigo Federal Constituency in the National Assembly and Hon Eloka Ikeh with his “Ifediche” mantra going to represent Nnewi North Constituency in the State House of Assembly. Hon Ikeh told Nnewi voters that their support of PDP candidates would translate to support for quality representation, youth empowerment, women empowerment, democracy dividends for all, transparency and accountability.