From Tony John, Port Harcourt Presidential candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu has described the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike as a man of principles and character. He stated this, yesterday, during a courtesy by the APC presidential candidate, Tinubu, his running mate, Kashim Shettima, APC national chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu to the Government House, Port Harcourt. At the meeting, Wike urged Tinubu to prevail on the Federal Government to ensure that the 2023 general election is not truncated. The Rivers Governor said the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) flagrant disregard for the Supreme Court on the naira sway policy matter should worry the APC-led Federal government, particularly as the 2023 general election draws near.  Wike, who thanked God that the APC presidential rally in the state was devoid of violence, however, expressed reservation whether the APC-led government was interested in conducting the 2023 general election, particularly with the lingering Naira sway crisis. “Do you people really want this election to take place or not; or you have an agenda to truncate this election? I don’t know. Look at what is happening in  Oyo today, Edo, Delta. See what is going on. I believe your party should make sure this election holds. You people are in power, ensure that this election holds. Nobody can solve the issue of corruption in two-three months. It is not possible. This thing is purely politically motivated.” Wike also took a swipe on the governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, for his blatant disregard for the Supreme Court of Nigeria.  Tinubu had informed governor Wike that the courtesy call was necessitated by his sheer regards and admiration for his advocacy that power should rotate to the south. The APC presidential candidate said he joined the race to lead the country on the philosophy which governor Wike has consistently advocated that power should return to the south. “Our courtesy call, not to personalize it, is out of the respect I have for you. You worked hard and you voiced loudly your commitment to unity and the critical part to that unity in Nigeria, you never advocated a division of our country. You followed history. You respect the country.” On Tinubu’s entourage were the governors of Kebbi,  Abubakar Atiku Bagudu; Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), David Umahi (Ebony), former Ekiti State governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, Minister of State for Petroleum,  Timipre  Sylva, Tony Okocha and others.