•Army deploys troops in trouble-prone areas  By Christopher Oji  Following the announcement of Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate, Mr. Peter Obi, as the winner of the presidential election in Lagos, there has been tension and panic all over the state. This followed threats by supporters of All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate and former governor of Lagos State, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on the social media, especially on Twitter and Facebook, that they were going to deal with the Igbo for voting against Tinubu in Saturday’s election. Following the threat, there have been pockets of attacks or attempted attacks on some business areas dominated by the Igbo. In the early hours on Monday, there was an attempted attack on the Illasa Generator Spare Parts market, but a team of policemen on patrol repelled the assailants. However, the people of Ijegemo, in the Isheri area of the state, were not that lucky as some shops were demolished and many people were robbed. In Ikotun, soldiers of the Nigerian Army deployed in the area were able to disperse some hoodlums and take over the Ikotun roundabout. There was also an attack on the popular Mandilas Market on Lagos Island. Specifically, reports said the thugs arrived Balogun and Ebute-Ero markets on motorcycles and started firing shots into the air. As a result of the shooting, the traders hastily closed their shops for fear of being hit by bullets. Shop owners along Broad Street, Bookshop and Tokunbo also shut down for fear of being caught in any mayhem. A witness, Chinyere Agu, told Daily Sun the thugs arrived the market by 10am and started chasing traders away. Agu alleged that the thugs also threatened that the shops would soon be taken away from them. “I wonder why electoral process, which was designed for all to chose their leaders, would also be used to victimize a section of people because of their tribe or religion,” she said.  Another witness, Tony Ndukwe, said the thugs emerged from the waterfront and opened fire as soon as they entered the market. A pharmacist, Israel Victor, said armed thugs went on rampage and assaulted traders on the Lagos Island. He alleged that traders came under heavy attack after the presidential election result conducted in Lagos was announced. He said the result, which showed the candidate of Labour Party winning the poll in Lagos State, aggravated the already tense atmosphere as a result of the build-up to the elections. “APC thugs are on rampage on the streets of Lagos because Peter Obi won Tinubu. In Abibu Oki Street, off Broad Street, in Mandilas Market, they are chasing the Igbo, robbing them and destroying properties,” he tweeted. Yet another witness, Temilola, said the result has pitted her against her father who now refers to her as a bastard because she supported Peter Obi. She said on her Twitter handle, @dammythemmy: “My dad is really mad at me with this Lagos win to Obi. See what you people have done now? From favorite daughter to omo-ale yoruba. What will I use to beg my daddy like this?”  Investigation showed that there is still tension and apprehension everywhere in Lagos, as non-indigenes are afraid to come out of their homes. A visit to Oshodi Market showed that all shops owned by Ndigbo were under lock and key. At the popular Tejuosho Market, traders did not open their shops for fear of being attacked. The same thing prevailed in Surulere, where traders, especially of Igbo extraction, did not open their shops for business. At Alaba International Market and Trade Fair Complex, Ojo, shops were under lock and key. A trader, Mike Eze, confirmed that the traders agreed before the election to close shop on Monday, but: “With the threats on Ndigbo by APC supporters, we won’t resume market tomorrow until we are assured of protection by security agencies. We need massive deployment of soldiers and police in our markets. If you go to Facebook, they are threatening to send us back to the East. Some are suggesting to the governor to turn our markets, especially Ladipo and Alaba International Market, to BRT park, while some said that they should destroy our shops.  I wonder if it was only Ndigbo that voted for Peter Obi or the only opposition party in Lagos.” Meanwhile, the Nigerian Army has stationed soldiers in certain crisis-prone areas. At Ikotun, the presence of soldiers was massive, while at Tejuosho Market, inwards Ojuelegba, a patrol vehicle of OP Mesa was stationed there. Also, at Five Star Bus Stop, some soldiers were deployed to safeguard Ladipo Market. The soldiers were invited by the management of the market after getting information of a planned attack on the market. There was a viral video of a fire incident at the market, but the management of the market and the police have cleared the air about the fire, saying it was an incident that occurred long before now, and advised the members of the public to disregard the fake news.  Spokesman, National Emergency Management Agency, South-West zone, Mr. Ibrahim Farinloye, said the agency had been to Ladipo and Tejuosho markets but there was no fire outbreak.  He said, “No crisis or fire incident in any part of Lagos so far. Please, ignore the circulation of old fire incident videos being circulated as recent event. Let’s maintain peace and harmony.” Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Benjamin Hundeyin, claimed the violence was caused by traders who reneged on an agreement no to open shops on Sunday and Monday. Hundeyin responded to a message shared by a Nigerian on his social media handle. The Nigerian had tweeted: “APC thugs are on the rampage on the streets of Lagos because Peter Obi won Tinubu…” Swiftly reacting to the tweet, Hundeyin described it as fake news. He added: “The market association agreed that shops would remain closed yesterday and today. Igbo traders this morning decided to renege on the agreement and open shops. Some hoodlums took it upon themselves to enforce compliance. The police were alerted. “The police arrived promptly. The hoodlums fled upon sighting police patrol vans. Not one shop was vandalised. Not one person was robbed. Not one person was injured. Normalcy was swiftly returned, and officers remain on the ground.” Hundeyin’s response, however, caused mixed reactions, with some Nigerians accusing him of profiling a certain group of people. At the time of this report, more soldiers have been deployed in Oshodi and other parts of the state.