Veteran Italian journalist, Luca Calamai, has saluted Atalanta’s purchase of Ademola Lookman as well as his pairing partner, Rasmus Hojlund, in the Summer window. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Nigerian forward was one of the six players that Gian Piero Gasperini received from the new sports director, Tony D’Amico. The Super Eagles attacker left RB Leipzig for a fee of around €15 million to join the Blue-Blacks in the Italian division. Ever since his move, the Nigerian man has been firing on all cylinders in the league, scoring 12 goals and dishing out 5 assists in 21 domestic league appearances. While his Danish teammate, Højlund, who was purchased in the same summer, has bagged 5 goals in 18 league appearances. This, however, means that this duo has handed Gasperini a total of 17 domestic league goals. Speaking on the transfer decision made by Atalanta’s sports director, the Journalist, Calamai, thinks the team, which is now third in Serie A standings, can advance to the UEFA Champions League with the help of the two players’ performances. “Sasto spot and hire right players remains an absolute value that often makes a difference. Take Atalanta. The new sports director Tony D’Amico was able to deliver to Gasperini two tips like Lookman and Hojlund, two strikers who could take the Goddess to the Champions League by giving the management another river of money.  In any case, Lookman and Hojlund are already two blank checks.” he said as cited by CalcioAtalanta. Fiorentina’s transfer decision was criticised by the Journalist, who asserts that the team’s struggles, which have left them in 14th place in the league standings, are due to the lack of a real striker. “On the other hand, at Fiorentina, the director Barone bought Jovic and Cabral. And Fiorentina finds itself without a real center forward. Mistakes that leave their mark.” he added. Atalanta narrowly defeated Viola in their most recent encounter, the two will face again on April 16.