From Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri About 10 communities and over 100 villages in Agwa Clan in Oguta Local Government Area of Imo State have endorsed Osita Izunaso for Imo West senatorial seat ahead of its election on Saturday. Heads of the villages and communities which included their traditional rulers made the endorsement on Monday after their meeting with Izunaso in Owerri. Prior to their endorsement, the people also signed a social contract agreement where they demanded that Izunaso should facilitate the construction of important projects in their communities, including the establishment of a school of nursing and midwifery. Speaking on behalf of the people, Dr. Bishop Nwaeze lamented the absence of government presence in the area, adding that the people are committed to delivering all the candidates of the All Progressives Congress(APC), including Izunaso, at the polls. He noted that the Clan is about half of the population of the entire Oguta LGA, pointing that such a huge population translates to a huge electoral value when properly harnessed. A copy of the social contract, which was personally signed by Izunaso reads in part: “This social contract agreement between Agwa Clan represented by Agwa Political Thinktank ably led by Bishop Dr. G.U. Nwaeze is made this day, Thursday, February 9, 2023, between Senator Osita Bournaventure Izunaso esq, the APC Senatorial Candidate for Orlu Zone, for the Saturday, February 25, 2023 Senatorial election, or any other day the election is held as a result of postponment or force majure. “Whereas the people of Agwa Clan comprising the three INEC Wards: (i) Mgbala/Ubah Ward (ii) Obudi/Aro Ward, and (iii) Uwaorie Ward, represented by Agwa Political Thinktank, willingly and freely entered into this partnership with Senator Osita Bournaventure Izunaso esq to vote for him and deliver him during February 25th, 2023, senatorial election, or any other day the election is held; “Whereas Senator Bournaventure Osita Izunaso esq willingly and freely agreed to enter into this partnership with Agwa Clan; we hereby covenant with him and sign this social contract as follows.” Addressing the mammoth crowd after personally endorsing the document, Izunaso assured the people that he would keep to the content of the social contract agreement when he returns to the Senate. He said he is much aware of the needs of the people and that he had commenced efforts to solve some of the problems.