From Sylvanus Viashima, Jalingo The House of Representatives candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) for Takum/Donga/Ussa and Yangtu Special Development area Federal Constituency in Taraba state Mr Solomon Tertsua Peter on Thursday said that with the reforms in the Electoral Act and increased awareness, the myth of big political parties will finally to put to rest in the Nigerian political landscape with the 2023 general elections. Peter said this while speaking with Journalists in Jalingo on Thursday on “Taraba Correspondent Chapel Media Parley, The Road to 2023”, an initiative of the Correspondent’s Chapel of the NUJ in Taraba State ahead of the 2023 general elections. He said that if elected into office, he will collaborate with other stakeholders in the constituency to sincerely tackle social injustice, insecurity, youth unemployment and restiveness as well as the general well-being of the people. The youngest candidate for the House of Representatives in Taraba at the moment said that lack of social justice among his constituents fueled his decision to seek election to the National Assembly so as to tackle the issue and other vices. He insisted that while it was nearly impossible for people to win election under platforms other than the supposed mega political parties in the past, Nigerians have now become better informed, more favourably disposed to taking their destiny into their hands and with the electoral Act reforms, there is a lot of surprises awaiting big political parties. “The lack of social justice that has attracted insecurity in my constituency is the reason I am contesting to represent the people at the national assembly to change the narrative. I want to express here that my decision to contest for the national assembly seat was moved by the continued lack of social justice among constituents like the provision of social amenities, the persistent banditry activities and the growing youth unemployment that is impacting negatively o the constituency. “I shall work with relevant stakeholders in the area to attract development and promote peace and harmony among the diverse ethnic groups in the constituency for the people to feel the impact of a dividend of democracy. “For over time, people-oriented and people-centred representation has eluded the people of my constituency. As a young and pragmatic leader who has maintained close touch with the people, I know the problems and the needs of the people of Kpambai in Ussa and Tunari in Donga. I feel the spirit of abandonment of the people of Chanchanji and the border challenges of the Manga community who are constantly being attacked by Cameroonians. “My primary responsibility as a lawmaker if elected will be to enact legislation that will address these problems and advance the development of my constituency as well as carry out oversight functions to promote good governance. “I shall encourage modern agricultural practice for farmers and create a steady market for their products by linking them with companies that need their products. My youth focus agenda will see to the establishment of an ICT hub in the constituency to train young people in ICT skills and empower our women and youths generally with life-changing skills. “I want our people to be aware that my decision to contest for the election is not to enrich myself after all, but is to ensure possible development that is being hampered by insecurity and the alarming rates of unemployed youth. I want my constituents to understand and chose the part of building a greater future for the people to thrive. “I will also open up rural access roads in the constituency to ease the movement of agricultural produce to the markets and improve access to health care facilities for the people,” he said.