Promises to facilitate greater opportunities for his constituents if returned From Priscilla Ediare, Ado Ekiti Hon Bimbo Daramola, the candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) for Ekiti North Federal Constituency 1 in the 2023 general election, has boasted that his past experiences as a former member of the House of Representatives and all the goodies he attracted to his Constituency are enough to earn him victory in the election. This was as he condemned vote-buying in the country’s electoral process, describing it as a cancer that must be tackled to enthrone real leaders who have Nigeria’s best interest at heart. Daramola who once represented the constituency between 2011 to 2015and seeking re-election into the Green Chamber made the statement while addressing journalists in Ado-Ekiti, capital of Ekiti State. The former federal lawmaker said he had no regrets quiting his former party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), saying no party in Nigeria today could match the SDP in all ramifications. The SDP chieftain said vote-buying had taken huge toll on the nation’s democratic growth and development, and the evil would continue to prevent genuine candidates from winning elections alleging that some politicians were taking advantage of poverty, and hunger in the land to compromise the people’s conscience ahead of the polls. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Reeling out his achievements in his first tenure, Daramola said he did quite well for his constituents, saying he facilitated construction of boreholes for some communities, constructed a hospital, distributed JAMB forms for the youths and empowered many, among several other achievements. The SDP candidate who is aspiring to represent Ikole and Oye local governments at the House of Representatives, said his antecedents, his huge deliveries in area of dividends of democracy were enough to speak for him, adding that none of his co- contenders could boast of past records and political experience, describing himself as the most experienced for the job as he would be a ranking member of the House of Representatives if elected again. Daramola who urged electorate to vote for him in the election, promised to use his influence and connections with highly placed personalities across the country to facilitate greater opportunities for his constituents if returned. ” This is the 8th year of my leaving the National Assembly, I have the experience and all that it takes. I can only urge my people to think well and vote right in the coming elections. I urged them to vote for me because of my pedigree. “I have done it before and my people felt my positive contributions, I can do it again, and this time it would be better,” he said. He added that he had also worked as Chief of Staff to the Speaker of the House of Reps, among others. He also noted that many serving lawmakers, governors and candidates, seeking elections to the National Assembly in the current dispensation are his friends and contemporaries, saying he would use such connections to further attract development to his area. Daramola said that his track records within and outside office as a lawmaker are enough to earn him victory at the forthcoming election, especially if all candidates are given a level play ground. He promised to provide loans for youths and farmers, to engage in ventures that would enhance their economic status and facilitate projects of importance to the state.