People of Enugu West senatorial district, under the auspices of Enugu West United for Peter Mbah/Ifeanyi Ossai, yesterday, commended Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for standing firm in his belief in equity, justice and fairness regarding the rotational zoning arrangement of the governorship seat of the state. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The people gave the commendation during an endorsement rally for the governorship candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Peter Mbah, his running mate, Ifeanyi Ossai, and other PDP candidates. At the rally, which witnessed the reception of huge number of members of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu West senatorial district, led by former APC acting chairman in Enugu State and former deputy governorship candidate of APC in 2019 general election, Gilbert Chikwado Chukwu, who decamped to the PDP, Governor Ugwuanyi asked the state Chairman of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Emmanuel Edeh, to pray for Ike Ekweremadu and his family over their ordeals in the United Kingdom. Governor Ugwuanyi before addressing the crowd first said: “There is something we are going to do. There is our brother who is not here. We are a family in Enugu State. We will pray for him and his family. I hereby call upon the CAN chairman to come and pray for our brother, our son and our friend, Ekweremadu.”   Edeh beseeched God to “intervene in the situation that has held Ekweremadu. You have been doing it Oh Lord and we ask on this ground today that you will do it for us and liberate Ekweremadu for us and bring him back in safety and joy in the name of Jesus Christ.”    Speaking on behalf of the traditional rulers from Enugu West senatorial district, Godwin Madu of Mbogu Kingdom, Achi, Oji River Local Government Area, disclosed they came to the rally to thank Governor Ugwuanyi for being a God fearing leader who has conscience and believes strongly in the principles of equity, justice and fairness. Madu equally applauded the governor for standing on the established rotational zoning arrangement of governorship position in the state and for also choosing Mbah to be his successor, saying: “Ugwuanyi is a good person to have chosen Mbah. Mbah is capable, competent and someone who has the passion and chain(s) of investments throughout the world but came home to strive to lead Enugu State. This is not a mean feat.” The monarch advised Mbah to emulate the guiding principles of Governor Ugwuanyi which ensured he kept faith with the rotational zoning arrangement, against all odds.   Chairman of Enugu West United for Peter Mbah/Ifeanyi Ossai, Ben Collins Ndu disclosed the rally was to cement the vow made by the people of Enugu West senatorial district in August 2021 on their stance for justice, equity and fairness, and that they will support Governor Ugwuanyi’s decision in respect of his preferred governorship candidate in 2023. Ndu expressed delight that the vow has yielded the desired result through the emergence of Mbah from Owo, Nkanu East Local Government Area in Enugu East senatorial district, saying: “Today, we have seen the result. Today, it has given birth to Okwute (Mbah). We thank God for this day. Responding, Mbah expressed great delight at the solidarity and support by the leaders and people of Enugu West senatorial district, stating that massive victory awaits PDP in a few days time. The PDP candidate expressed his profound gratitude to Governor Ugwuanyi for his emergence and commitment to the principles of equity, justice and fairness, describing the governor as “the man God used to enable our emergence, a man who has deposited Enugu State in the hands of God and has allowed God to take a prominent position in all that he does.” Mbah went further to appreciate the leaders and people of Enugu West senatorial district “for this honour and this endorsement they have done today,” declaring that with the massive endorsement “defeat stares our opposition in the face; the camp of the opposition is in a terrible disarray. “The people of Enugu West, I want to tell you, you are going to be rewarded for this loyalty and support you have demonstrated today. We will reciprocate this gesture with massive development of Enugu West. “Let me also assure you we are going to be guided by the principles of equity, justice and fairness that Ugwuanyi’s administration is renowned for. We are going to adopt and apply that in all that we do in Enugu State.” Governor Ugwuanyi, who reechoed the sentiments, commitment and unequivocally articulated position of the people of Enugu West senatorial district during the Ifemelumma Rally of August 7, 2021, pointed out that the historic event was “statement of fact, it was a philosophy and indeed it was Ofo.”