By Henry Uche In line with its commitment to offer guests and visitors exceptional comfort, Transcorp Hotels -Calabar has partnered with Heirs Life Assurance (HLA), on an affordable add-on life insurance package for its guests, filled with Peace of Mind with Heirs Life’s Term Assure Plan.  With this plan, a variant of its popular Term Assure plan, Heirs Life assures guests of relaxation and peace of mind, confidence that the company will step in to make a payment in the case of critical incidents listed in the policy extracts.  A statement by Heirs Life confirmed that the partnership further intensifies Heirs Life’s effort to democratise insurance, drive financial inclusion and offer solid financial security to everyone. Available via the Transcorp Hotels Calabar, guests have the option to include the package as an added benefit to enjoying the premium hospitality services offered in the hotel.   Speaking on the occasion the Managing Director/CEO of Heirs Life, Niyi Onifade, said, “This partnership is a demonstration of our mandate to bring insurance closer to people. Through our collaboration with Transcorp Hotels Calabar, guests will access affordable, bite-sized life insurance right from the hotel’s premises. We are delighted to partner with Transcorp Hotels Calabar, a brand that aligns with our vision of impacting lives and transforming Africa.” The MD assured that, Heirs Life would continued to provide simple, quick, accessible, and reliable life insurance, retirement, and children’s education protection plans for Nigerians.  “Since its launch into the insurance sector in June 2021, HLA has been offering a wide range of personalised life insurance protection and investment plans that provide financial security to individuals and businesses,” he added.  Commenting also, the Managing Director/ CEO of Transcorp, Dupe Olusola, reaffirmed the commitment of Transcorp Hotels to curating exceptional guest experiences. She said: “This partnership is another way of showing our dedication to the wellbeing of our guests when they visit any of our properties. While we have put everything in place to ensure a perfect stay, we also believe in going the extra mile to provide even more for you.”  •