By Bolaji Okunola Hours to the 2023 presidential election slated for Saturday 25 February 2023, Coalition of APC Support Groups (Southwest Zone), has joined its national body to dump the party and its presidential flagbearer, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for rival under the platform of People’s Democratic Party, Abubaker Atiku. This was stated in a similar held on Thursday in Osogbo, Osun State. Declaring reason behind the idea, group leader, Yahaya Majeed revealed APC has failed the nation and it’s time power returned to the PDP. Having bowed to pressure joining the national body who made this known on Monday, 20th of February in Abuja, Majeed hinted all hands are on deck to put things in order ahead the election. “We are here today to replicate, in the south west region, what happened in Abuja on Monday 20 February. We are using this opportunity to tell the world we no longer belong to APC. ‘We are here to show to the world that the Coalition of APC Support Groups, an umbrella body of all recognized and certificated support groups of the APC, has renounced its allegiance and shift support for the actualization of Atiku/Okowa Presidency 2023 project. “You will agree with me that Nigerians have endured enough in the last eight years with the poor governance of Buhari’s administration and APC, and it is high time we must collectively stop the mess created by Buhari, his government and the APC. “We must therefore rise up to say enough is enough to the APC-led government for the betterment of our children unborn and for posterity to judge us right. “We must collectively reject the wickedness call APC and make our voice loud through the ballots that Atiku/Okowa of the PDP is the answer we need to salvage the ruins caused by Buhari’s government,” the accountant turned politician stated. Also speaking, South West Zonal Chairman, Oluwatosin Babatunji Akanji, described the action as timely and a patriotic move to save the nation.‘ We are doing this to save the nation and I hope we get the positive result. We realised the APC flag bearer has no plan for the country that’s why we decided to back out and join Atiku for a greater Nigeria,’ he disclosed.