From Okwe Obi, Abuja The New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), has cautioned unprofessional groups to desist from churning out unsubstantiated opinion polls capable of causing crisis. NNPP recalled that sometime in 2011the country almost went in to flames following alleged rigging of elections due to fake opinion polls bandied before the elections. Its National Publicity Secretary, Agbo Major, in a statement, yesterday, claimed that most pollsters connive with politicians to deceive the public, confer undue advantage on some preferred candidates and to deceive undecided voters to move their attention to a dubiously acclaimed winning candidate. He called on the media to be circumspect in publishing what he called “falsehoods” put together by some faceless groups. The spokesman also charged security agencies to be alive to their responsibilities by beaming their searchlight on the activities of social media public opinion polls warriors. Major said: “It is disheartening and disturbing the character and result of public opinion polls on the 2023 presidential election being released by selfish and unprofessional groups that don’t have any pedigree, giving misleading results designed to promote certain candidate as a leading contender. “More worrisome is that most media houses have fallen for this joke that have many far-reaching implication to the credibility of the elections and the security of the country. “One cannot blame the Media for reporting these fake opinion polls, however, the fourth realm of the estate needs to be wary to celebrate these falsehoods in their reportage. “The so-called groups conducting these fake polls may be doing so in order to: Connive with some candidates to deceive the public and confer undue advantage on some preferred candidates; Deceive the undecided voters to move their attention to a dubiously acclaimed winning candidate. “Discourage supporters of other candidates so as to sway their support to the fraudulently acclaimed leading candidate; Set up a booby trap for potential crisis if the criminally promoted candidate does not win by crying rigging. “We cannot forget in a hurry our experience in 2011 when the country was thrown into unavoidable crisis following alleged rigging of elections due to fake opinion polls bandied before the elections. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “Many lives and properties were destroyed due to the wickedness of fake pollsters and the laxity of authorities. “Therefore, it is pertinent to call on all these fake public opinion polls mongers to desist from driving the country into crisis. “We equally call on security agencies to be alive to their responsibilities and be more interested in the activities of all the dubious social media public opinion polls warriors. “We cannot sit down and allow selfish and fake individuals to aggravate the tense situation we are passing through in our dear country by releasing fake opinion polls results which is as dangerous as releasing fake election results. “They are recipe for political upheavals, anarchy and crisis in the polity.” He reiterated the capacity of NNPP, to positively change the fortune of the country if elected across board in the forthcoming plebiscite. “NNPP is a grassroots political party set to usher in a new and better Nigeria if voted into office in the February 25, 2023 presidential election. “Nigerians want a competent, resourceful, visionary and pragmatic leader to redirect the ship of the nation to the path of rectitude, progress, development and advancement. “This will bring to an end our long national nightmare and suffering. Senator (Engr.) Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso remains the front runner in the upcoming presidential election. “With millions of Nigerians identifying with his people oriented manifesto, NNPP is confident of victory in the general election,” he said.