•Puts country in comity of nations Rev. Yakubu Pam, Executive Secretary, Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission (NCPC), has said that the Naira Redesign/Cashless policy of the Federal Government was targeted at tackling corruption and insecurity in the country. Pam who spoke on Monday said the policy was neither aimed at individuals or to cause hardship to Nigerians. The cleric urged all Nigerians to rally round President Muhammadu Buhari, as he stands his grounds to deliver a Nigeria free from insecurity and corruption as promised during his campaigns. “This is the moment we need to rally round the President; we need to encourage him. Everybody has witnessed in the past few weeks how he has stood his ground on the new naira note to tackle corruption, especially among the elite. We should encourage him. “Knowing that we are passing through a transition period where power will move from one government to another, the current administration must have witnessed a lot and want to deliver solutions to so many challenges, especially insecurity and corruption, that have been bedeviling the country,’’ he said. The executive secretary called on Nigerians to be patient with the challenges accompanying the policy, saying that the CBN was doing everything possible to cushion the pains. According to him, there is no new policy that will not come with its challenges. “The challenges are to be expected. We must endure some of these challenges so as to prepare for a better future.” He charged religious and traditional leaders to engage citizens in their jurisdiction on the gains of the policy to prevent them from being misled by mischief makers. According to him, the Cashless Policy will put Nigeria in the comity of developed nations as Nigeria remains the greatest black nation in the world”. Pam added that the effective implementation of the cashless policy, will conquer corruption and insecurity, which would give hope to many other African countries looking up to Nigeria to lead the continent into greatness. “Nigeria remains the greatest black nation in the world and I believe that others who are learning from us will be proud to see us overcome some of these challenges. “This will give them hope that this black nation has come of age and does not need assistance from anywhere to survive; this is what we are looking for; for Nigeria to be the first to break some of these challenges towards a victorious life,’’ he said. NCPC helmsman urged the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to continue to monitor the process as few people could be manipulating the process for personal gains. He also urged all Nigerians to support the initiative, be patient with the process to attain a Nigeria “we all desire and will be proud of”.