Sylvanus Viashima, Jalingo Professor Jerome Nyameh, a governorship aspirant under the platform of the People’s Democratic Party PDP at the last primaries of the party in Taraba state has said that he is currently working for the election of former Vice president Alhaji Atiku Abubakar because of his entrepreneurial prowess. Nyameh who disclosed this while speaking with Journalists at his Jalingo residence said that the party at the state level has betrayed his trust by refusing to do what is right at the Primaries and disrespecting the existing zoning arrangement in the state chapter of the party. He said he was still consulting with his people to decide on who to support for the governorship and would inform his supporters at the right time. While commending the overwhelming support of the people of the state in the course of the legal battle to claim the ticket of the party, Nyameh said that the ruling of the Apex Court was disappointing but he has to accept it since there was no option. “For now, I am working and mobilizing our people to ensure the victory of our Presidential candidate Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and his running mate Mr Okowa. This has been my preoccupation for a while now. My support is not just because he is a party man but because he has proven to be a very capable hand. “At the moment, Atiku is the highest private employer of labor in the entire Northeast. He has successfully managed his private businesses and proven his capacity to manage our economy very well. “Besides his proven track records in administrations and economic management, he has shown a manifest disposition as a unifier who can correct the divisive lines created by the current APC administration in the country. “You know my experience with the party at the state level and so for now I can not say that I am supporting the gubernatorial candidate of our party. We are still consulting and at the right time, we would take a stand on that. “As a law abiding citizen, I have no choice but to accept the rather disappointing verdict of the Supreme Court which is unquestionable. I am however consoled by the overwhelming support I received from the people. “Despite all the challenges, I can confidently say that I do not regret going into this race. It has shown me just how desperate our people are for a change. It shows me how much suffering our people are going through. I came face to face with the stack realities of government gross failure in the state and how much it affects the people. “Mine is a divine project and I can tell that it is not over yet. We have heard the human verdict which can be manipulated. I am now waiting for God’s verdict which no one can temper with” Nyameh said.