From Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The acting Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of zone 11 comprising of Oyo and Osun States, Mr Akande Sikiru Kayode, has directed the Commissioners of Police in the two states to commence investigations into the violent protests in some parts of the state as a result of the cash crunch. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) for the zonal command, Mr Ayeni Benjamin, in a statement released yesterday said the zone will soon start clampdown on all criminals and miscreants who took advantage of the situation to break into government and private properties. He hinted that the zone has already commenced analysing all the video records given to it which showed violent protests in some areas. He stressed that the zone will not allow miscreants to take over public space. He disclosed further that the acting AIG has directed the commissioners of Police in the zone to activate their Intelligence bureaus to start picking all the thugs and miscreants involved in the past violent protest. The acting AIG in charge of the zone has warned against violence in Saturday’s elections. The police boss advised parents and guardians to ensure that their children are kept under their custody during the election. He said the police will deal ruthlessly with any individual who perpetrates violence before, during and after the elections. He informed that the police are prepared to prevent the breakdown of law and order during the election. While warning against violence, the police chief informed that “violence has never helped any nation and it is never a solution to the problem confronting our nation.” “In view of the current situation in the country people should remain calm and go about their legitimate businesses as the Zone will not allow the breakdown of law and order within its jurisdiction,” he stated.