From TONY JOHN, Port Harcourt The All Progressives Congress (APC), in Rivers State, has defended the absence of the former Minister of Transportation and leader of the party in the state, Chibuike Amaechi, for his absence at the campaign rally of the presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, in Port Harcourt, on Thursday. State APC spokesman, Darlington Nwauju, made the defence in a statement he released shortly after the campaign. He stated that Amaechi, who is a Law student, was attending to his academics, adding that the immediate past Minister of Transportation is firmly in charge of the party in the state. Nwauju said: “If you are not aware, the former Transportation Minister is a Law school student and is attending to his academics. But you must also know that Amaechi is firmly in charge of the APC structure in Rivers State.” Meanwhile,  the presidential candidate, Tinubu, who arrived at the  Yakubu Gowon Stadium, Elekahia Port Harcourt, the campaign venue with his running mate, Kashim Shettima and other party stalwarts, at about 4pm, said if elected, he would make Nigeria better.  He apologized to the party faithful and crowd of supporters, saying that it was neither intention nor their any fault of theirs for coming far behind schedule, saying, “This politics in political.” He, however, expressed optimism that he would be president of Nigeria and urged Rivers people to vote for him on February 25, 2023, presidential election. Tinubu and advised Niger Delta youths not to destroy oil installations in the region, promising that  his administration would promote production, tackle poverty and create wealth for Nigerians, as well as improve living conditions for the citizens.  Speaking further, Tinubu said  he wants power to be able to change the living conditions of citizens and make Nigeria a prosperous nation. He further said, “Here we again in Nigeria and in Rivers State. It is not fish that we are looking for, it is not crayfish because it is also in Lagos. “What we are looking for is authority to change lives for prosperity. Power and mandate to give you the best of lives to take care of your inheritance. “To make sure that all of you, particularly the youths, that you are empowered to have the best skills in the world that can we can manufacture and export to other countries. “Things we can produce to make Nigeria proud and be a nation of prosperity, joy and happiness beyond one day.” He, however, said the desired and envisaged ‘prosperity’ in Nigeria would be elusive without a peaceful environment and factories, including fictional sea ports to create employment. “Without our own factory, without better utilization of our ports, without peace and stability, we cannot achieve those aims and dreams. We want you to take your lives seriously beyond politics.”  While responding to the cheering crowd, Tinubu expressed happiness at the warm reception and ovation, saying,” You want the President? “I will be (President) by the grace of God, become your president by the power of votes. Make sure you have your PVC. Make sure your votes and your ballot is ready. “I know already that you are looking for President. You will vote for me as your president. God will bless you. I pray one day you will be President too, let’s work together, let’s build the nation, a nation of joy, a nation of unity. “A nation that is hard working; that is working together, not killing one another. Today I am here. I don’t want to leave you in doubt. I am running for President. When you make me the President I will love you more.” He promised: “All of you, today, I promise you that we must work together to stop vandalization of our properties, of our oil pipelines to build more. “It is only in unity working together, prosperity will be ours. I want to thank you for your warm reception. I will come back to Rivers.  Ends.