From David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi The Director General of Labour Party Campaign Committee in Anambra State, Chief Geomartin Uzodike has advised Anambra electorate to, not only vote Mr Peter Obi for President but to also vote all candidates for the National Assembly under the party’s platform. He advised the party’s faithful at Igbo-Ukwu in Aguata Local Governement Area of the State while the electorate were being given the last minute voter education. Chief Uzodike said that all Christians and other religious leaders had decided that Mr Peter Obi should be voted in as Nigeria’s next President having been rated the most qualified among all the contestants. He noted that even some Nothern  elders had told the Igbo that the ball was in their court. He affirmed that Obi must become the President of Nigeria through the ballots with effect from next Sunday. Uzodike, a one-time Commissioner in Peter Obi’s administration as Governor of Anambra State said he was excited that this would be happening in his lifetime that an Igboman would become the President of Nigeria after many years denial of that opportunity. On his part, the Anambra State Chairman of the party, Hon Ugo Emeh said since Nigeria Independence of 1960 never a time Nigerians had agreed in consensus as it is happening today that an Igboman would become President of the country. He said that since the opportunity had come that it should be well exploited by voting Obi and others under the LP platform into the  National Assembly to work with Mr Obi when elected President.  The Director General of the LP campaign committee for Aguata Council Area, Hon Gaius Eze who is also the leader of a pressure group under the aegis of Equity Turn By Turn, said that for an Igboman to become a President had been the age-long pursuit of his group.  He expressed delight that this goal was going to be actualized come February 25, 2023.  Hon Eze insisted that with Obi as President, equity, justice and fairness must have been achieved in Nigeria. He advised party members and all Igbo at large not to toil with the opportunity. President of the Catholic Women Organization (CWO) in Igbo-Ukwu, Lady Okoli Gloria expressed optimism that Mr Obi would win to balance the political equation in the country.  She lectured the party members on the right way to go about it to ensure success of the party at the polls.