By Lukman Olabiyi Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has urged Lagosians to remain calm despite the difficulties and frustrations being faced by all. Sanwo-Olu while pleading with Lagosians to remain calm, said security men had been placed on the red alert across the state to prevent any outbreak of violence occasioned by Naira scarcity. According to him, “violence and destruction should not and will never be the answer.” The governor who made the plea yesterday at the State House in Marina, admonished the people to be their brother’s keeper and “do everything we can to contribute to lessening the hardships faced by our fellow Lagosians.” He also warned against attacks on properties, whether public or private, saying “law enforcement agents have received clear instructions to take full control and ensure zero tolerance for any and all acts of arson, violence and destruction.” The governor said: “My fellow Lagosians, this is a heartfelt call to you, as your governor, to please remain calm at this time, and avoid all forms of violence, arson and rioting. Even in the face of the difficulties and frustrations being faced by all, violence and destruction should not and will never be the answer. “We have noticed with dismay the rampant incidents surrounding some of the players in the financial services value chain (POS Agents/Operators); as well as petrol station attendants, who have taken the current challenges to mean an opportunity to extort hard working and law-abiding Lagosians with extortionate service charges on funds withdrawal and sale of PMS. I appeal to those involved to desist from such sharp practices. This is not the period to sacrifice empathy, compassion, and humanity on the altar of profit making. To my good people of Lagos, please resist the opportunists who seek to take advantage of the anger and frustration that you all are feeling to hijack the situation and foment trouble. “We know there are unscrupulous persons who want to sow seeds of violence and discord by their very utterances and actions, all with the view to robbing you of the chance to cast your votes in the February 25 presidential and National Assembly elections. Do not allow them to use you to achieve their evil intentions. “There is no justification whatsoever for attacking public or private property. The law enforcement agents have received clear instructions to take full control and ensure zero tolerance for any and all acts of arson, violence and destruction. “As a government that fully understands the challenges you are faced with, with regard to access to cash, we are working very hard to provide palliative measures to lessen the burdens being faced. As part of these measures, I have approved an immediate reduction in transportation charges for public-owned transport, across the state public transport system: our buses, ferries and taxis. We are also in discussion with private transport operators not to hike fares at this time. We have also since begun the distribution of food packs, to the most vulnerable citizens, the people most impacted by this disruption in the supply of cash. We will continue to highlight more vulnerable groups within our distribution channels who would benefit from the palliatives. “The Lagos State government, under my watch, will continue to stand by, with and for the ordinary people of Lagos.”