Sylvanus Viashima, Jalingo Jalingo, the Taraba state capital is agog with jubilation as senator Emmanuel Bwacha wins the rerun of the All Progressives Congress Gubernatorial Primaries ahead of the March 11 general election. The Supreme Court had earlier nullified the Gubernatorial Primaries of the party held last year and ordered a rerun following a suite filed by one of the aspirants Chief David Sabo Kente. The former Chief of Army Staff and Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress Lt Gen. Tukur Buratai who declared Senator Bwacha as the winner of the indirect Primaries held on Friday in Jalingo commended the peaceful conduct of the polls by the delegates and all the stakeholders. Buratai noted that from the Eight Hundred and Forty (840) delegates, derived from One Hundred and Sixty Eight (168) wards that constitute the Sixteen local government areas in the state, with Five delegates from each ward, a total of Seven Hundred and Ninety Six delegates were accredited and participated in the polls. The former COAS said that a total of Six aspirants including Chief David Sabo Kente, Senator Yusuf A. Yusuf, Engr Saleh Maman, Senator Emmanuel Bwacha, Dr, Anthony Manzo and Mr. Danladi Kifasi are contesting to take the ticket of the party ahead of the March governorship election in the state. Bwacha polled a total of Seven Hundred and Seventy Eight (778) of the Seven Hundred and Eighty Three valid votes cast to clinch the ticket of the party while Senator Yusuf A. Yusuf came second with five votes and eight invalid votes. While addressing the press after the polls and announcement of results, Bwacha urged the people you keep faith as the path to success if always filled with setbacks and assured them that he will go into the polls and win victorious at the March 11th Gubernatorial election in the state. The Chairman of the Bwacha Campaign Organization and former deputy Governor of Taraba state Alhaji Uba Maigari said that the validation of Bwacha’s mandate shows that he is God’s chosen one to be the next governor of the state. Maigari insisted that despite the detractions, the organization is poised to kick off campaign in earnest yo ensure all round victory of the party in the state. Meanwhile Honorable Gambo Mubarak has won the APC House of Representatives primary rerun election in a landslide victory after the Supreme Court nullified his emergence and ordered a rerun. Mubarak who described his victory as a validation of the people’s mandate called on all party members to join hands with him to work for the good of the party and for victory in the National Assembly election coming up in two weeks time. Similarly, Honorable Abubakar Yahuza has won the Jalingo 1 state constituency election to retain his ticket and vie to retain his seat at the Taraba state House of Assembly. However, Alhaji Nasiru Abdullahi Baba described the nomination of Honorable Yahuza as mere child’s play as the delegates list used was in contention and delegation that came to conduct the election could not present a delegates list emanating from the national secretariat of the party. Baba said that he will head back to Court as the party has failed to resolve the issues that led to the litigations leading to the rerun election.