Insists Deputy Governor not a threat Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja Chief of Staff to the Kogi State Governor Muhammed Jamiu Asuku has declared that he is not Governor Yahaya Bello’s candidate for the upcoming November governorship election. Asuku also declared that the deputy governor, Edward Onoja, will not constitute any threat to him, stressing that election is a game of contest. He spoke to reporters after picking the expression of interest and nomination forms at the national secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abuja. “You asked if I am the anointed aspirant of the governor of Kogi State. He is somebody known for providing a level playing ground for everybody. He is somebody who allows everybody to come on board and showcase their popularity. He has not anointed anybody and I am not his anointed aspirant,” he said. On the threat from the Deputy governor, he said: “As for my brother, Edward Onoja, whether he is a threat if he is in the race. The answer is no. He is not a threat. Nobody is a threat to anybody. “Democracy is a game of contest and the people deserve the right to decide who they want. The issue of threat or no threat does not arise. It is not about who should be threat, but who is more youthful,” he said On why he is the man for the job, he said: “I served as the Chief of staff of this administration and many have referred to it as the engine room of the administration. I believe it better to elect a man who is a part of the God-fearing administration.” “What do I have for the youths of Kogi state, as you have said our treasures are iron and steel and other minerals and as you are aware our president Muhammadu Buhari has removed all financial encumbrances not just for the people of Kogi state but the entire country Nigeria because no nation can develop without iron and steel. “Youths are today in charge in Nigeria and that is why someone like me can come and pick a form to contest for governorship at the age of 39. “Asking me about what I have for the youth is not a question at all, when we get there the youths will see themselves. I told you before that when His Excellency came on board what used to be the norm is tribe, religion and social class but not today we don’t talk about such things. “You talked about Kogi West senatorial district, I have said that it is an open contest and in a democracy, everybody has the right to contest. But in Kogi by the leadership style of his excellency, we have gone past such sentiments. “If there is any sentiment it is that of youths who are the majority. The people from Kogi West will come and I believe some of them have already come and like I said the people will have their say,” he said.