Governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akwa Ibom State, Akanimo Udofia has pledged to accelerate the infrastructural and human capital development of the state  so it becomes the destination of choice for investors and tourists, if voted into office.  Udofia made the pledge before a mammoth crowd of supporters at the official flag-off of APC campaigns at the Ikot Ekpene Township Stadium. He also extolled the visionary leadership of the APC presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu saying he would partner with him as president to unleash development in the state.  He said he would prioritise the welfare of workers through the prompt payment of salaries, pensions and gratuities. He vowed to continue from where the administration of Chief Godswill Akpabio stopped by paying workers an extra month salary in December and the return of free and compulsory education, payment of bursary, scholarship and grants to Akwa Ibom students. The  gubernatorial candidate said, he would enter into a solemn contract with Akwa Ibom people to bring prosperity to all.  “Upon assumption of office as the Governor of Akwa Ibom State after my swearing-in on May 29, 2023, I will grant the local government administration full autonomy; support our local economy and the development of the grassroots people.  Also, I will be very intentional about the educational development of our youths and healthcare of the young and old citizens of Akwa Ibom State,” Udofia said. On his plans for aviation development, Udofia said: “Akwa Ibom State Airport will be designed with full capacity as an international airport in three months after my swearing-in as the governor and within 90 days in office, I will conduct the groundbreaking for the construction of underground road from the international airport down to Oron. That project was conceived since Akpabio’s government, but abandoned by his successor.”  Udofia thanked the APC and Akwa Ibom people for their resilience, unwavering support and show of love and urged them to join hands with him in the upcoming polls to build the Akwa Ibom State of their dreams. Former governor of Akwa Ibom State and senatorial candidate of Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial District, Godswill Akpabio said Udofia was not chosen by man, but God who would grant him victory at the poll come March, 2023.  Akpabio described the APC guber-candidate as an international businessman with the needed experience and connections to turn things around for the better in Akwa Ibom State. He said Udofia would provide food, employment and connect the state to the center of Nigerian government when elected as governor. He urged the people to be ready to vote for all APC candidates at the polls. Highlight of the flag-off ceremony was the presentation of flags to all candidates of the APC by the State Chairman of the party, Stephen Ntukekpo, who urged the candidates to carry the message of prosperity to be instituted by the APC administration to every nook and cranny of the state and emerge victorious in the upcoming elections.