…… Training will prepare applicants to create networks for themselves -SSA From Abel Leonard, Lafia The Nasarawa state government has trained 370 young indigenes of the state on business plan development to enable trainees to be employable and better entrepreneurs. Speaking at a one day training on Wednesday, in Lafia, the capital of Nasarawa State, the  Senior Special Assistant to the state governor and Focal Person  Human Capital Development, Habiba  Balarabe Suleiman said the trainees are indigenes from across the 13 local government areas of the state. The Focal Person said the  essence of the training is to build the capital of the trainees on developing business plan in order to meet global best practices. She further explained that the training would equip the beneficiaries with the requisite skills to participate in the 500 million naira Youth Revolving Fund Scheme of the state government. “From the kind of the applications that we have received, the kind of business proposal that were submitted, we saw the need to bridge the gap. So we decided to equip them with the basic format of presenting a Business plan so that they are able to access the facility.” “We trained about three hundred and now we have included the recent graduates from vocational technology institute about seventy of them. So we about three hundred and seventy  that have been trained and this workshop is not limited to anybody, it is an open workshop for the citizens of Nasarawa State across the thirteen local government.” Speaking on expectations, the  Focal Person said at the end of the exercise, it would be expected  that everybody goes back  with a better understanding of a business idea and how to present a viable business plan, how to grow and keep account books, generates  profit from their businesses, access loans with their plans.  “We are hoping that they will be able to some extents increase or improved level of enlightenment and should be able to create a network within themselves.” “Eventually  we are hoping that they will use the skills and knowledge they have  learned in this workshop to develop their business plans that they use to apply for the five million naira.” She added. In his remark, Commissioner for trade, Industry and Investment,  Mr. Salihu Enah noted that Small Scale Industries constitute the bedrock of industrialization of any nation, highlights  India, Malaysia and Singapore as examples of country’s that did exploit via small scale businesses. Salihu However, stressed that there is no successful business without a bankable business plan. “There is a common saying that failure to plan is planning to fail. The need therefore for acquiring knowledge on how to prepare business plan before embarking on any business cannot be overemphasized.” He further urged the applicants to pay keen attention to the presentations that would be made during the training to enable them acquire the knowledge of how to prepare business plan so that when they are given the loan they would be able to  run a profitable business. “The applicants must know that this training is preparing you towards selfreliance and sustainable livelihood so as to reduce the over dependence on government. Government cannot do it alone because it has enormous responsibilities of meeting up with the yearnings and aspiration of the electorates.” The commissioner thanked  governor, Abdullahi sule for his moral, financial and all the necessary support for embarking on programmes that are geared towards Youth Empowerment in Nasarawa State while also commending  the Deputy Governor Emmanuel Akabe who doubles as the Chairman Human Capital Development Council in Nasarawa State. Some of the applicants, patience Amos from Wanba Local government area  appreciated  God and the state government for the great opportunity given to be part of the one day workshop.  “I am a business lady, am into rice processing, but the capital is not all there, but through this programme am seeing myself moving  from where I am into a higher ground for in my  business.” Another applicant, Noel  Dannis also said it  an opportunity for the  youth in the sate stating that he is already into business noting that with they have taught us about business  plan it will  expand their business.e “Because, nobody wants to remain local, we want to go international so with this training I see is going to help a lot of youth to gather momentum to expand whatever business they are into. “For those that wants to start up a business, it will be a  nice  starting point because it is the basic that is taught  today, it is the basic for any entrepreneur.” he said