• Say LP candidate’ll revamp Nigeria Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Magnus Eze, Enugu The Association of Igbo Town Unions (ASITU) has guaranteed Nigerians that the Presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP), Mr Peter Obi, would not disappoint if elected president of the country next Saturday. ASITU said having consulted widely within and outside Igboland and leveraging on the candidate’s total acceptance across board in Nigeria, Africa and the world, “we hereby confirm and hand over Peter Obi to Nigerians for Presidency 2023.”  In a statement issued in Enugu by its National President/President General of Imo State, Chief Emeka Diwe, the town unions described Obi as their beloved son in who they were well pleased. Other signatories to the statement are Gideon Adikwuru (National Secretary), Monday Ikokwu (National Public Relations Officer), Chief George Mgborukwe, (PG Abia State Town Unions), Chief Titus Akpudo (National President, Association of Anambra Town Unions, (ASATU), Chief Paully Eze, Coordinating PG, Enugu State Town Unions and Chief Ugochukwu Akpa, PG Ebonyi State Town Unions.  According to them, they delayed in making their position known to enable Nigerians form opinions about the three leading candidates; namely Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Bola Tinubu, All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peter Obi. The group said the well thought out strategy was to avoid tainting the presidential race with tribal or religion sentiments, but create an atmosphere of unbiased choice by Nigerians.  However, in endorsing Obi, they explained that they took into consideration, critical success factors of good governance, sustainability and intergenerational equity, saying that the former Anambra Governor performed creditably while in office. The town unions said: “Our dear countrymen, he is our beloved son in whom we are well pleased. We guarantee you that he shall never fail you or disappoint your expectations for a greater Nigeria that beams with endless opportunities.  “We confirm and affirm his endorsement by all Nigerians. Please support him, elect him for he is undiluted representative of Ndigbo. We the Igbo take full responsibility for his actions and inactions, as we know he shall surpass all your expectations. We tried him as Governor of Anambra State, he did not disappoint. We appeal to you to give him a chance to pull Nigeria out from the doldrums.  “As Nigerians, we must shun political party affiliations, ethnic sentiments and religious biases, and cast our votes for the best candidate. We must never allow ethnicity to divide us again. We must jettison all fault lines, including religion, tribe and all unhelpful primordial sentiments, and think about the survival of Nigeria, which is also our collective survival. Let us elect a president that can heal our land, restore our dignity, reinvent our institutions, rebuild the family, restructure the nation and remake the man and make Nigeria great again.”