By Lukman Olabiyi Both community and political leaders of Ndigbo in Lagos State have pledged their total support for the aspirations of All Progressives Congress (APC), presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and the governorship candidate in the state, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in the 2023 general elections. The Igbo in the state under various communities groups and political groups, including Ndigbo in APC, Lagos State chapter, from the 20 Local Government Areas (LGAs) and the 37 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) of the state, declared their support for the ruling party (APC) and its candidates vying for various elective post at forthcoming general elections in Ikeja.  The Special Adviser to Lagos State governor on Drainage and Water Resources, Joe Igbokwe, who is the apex leader of Ndigbo in APC and his deputy, Jude Idumogu, a representative of Oshodi Isolo in the Lagos state House of Assembly, led other prominent Igbo communities leaders in the state to pledge their support for Tinubu and Sanwo-Olu at a special event held at the secretariat of the party’s Independent Campaign Group (ICG). At the event, many of the Igbo leaders who spoke, told the party to ignore the rumour going around that Igbo in the state will not vote for Tinubu. They said, they were not just going to vote for Tinubu who they described as detribalised Nigerian but that they are going to vote massively for APC and all its candidates at the forthcoming polls. Speaking on behalf of the Igbo in state, Igbokwe said APC is their party and their loyalty and commitment are to the party. He said the forthcoming poll is a payback time for Tinubu by the Igbo in the state because the former Lagos State governor laid the foundation for Igbo to thrive politically and economically in the state. Igbokwe boasted that no other candidates in the forthcoming presidential race have the scorecard of Tinubu in terms of political structures, contribution to national development and political sagacity. He urged different Igbo communities in the state to reciprocate Tinubu’s kind gesture to them with massive vote. “Lagos has been good to people of other extractions including the Igbo. We have Igbo, Hausa in the state cabinet. Therefore, a vote for APC is a vote for development of all,” he said. The deputy apex political leader of Igbo in the state, Idumogu said that Tinubu remained the most experienced of all the presidential candidates. He said that Igbos in Lagos state remained part of the party in leadership because they earn their living in the state and as such, must protect it. Idumogu charged his tribesmen to shock the party with their massive vote for Tinubu, Sanwo-Olu and other party’s candidates at the forthcoming polls. In his response, the Chief of Staff to the Governor, Mr. Tayo Ayinde, who is the Director General of the ICG, thanked both the Igbo communities and political leaders for declaring their support for the party and all its candidates. He charged them to work hard for the party in order to ensure its victory, promising that their hard work would be rewarded handsomely.