From Adetutu Folasade-Koyi, Abuja The Federal Government has accused fifth columnists working in concert with opposition political parties to destabilise the February 25 and March 11 elections. Minister of Information and  Culture, Lai Mohammed, disclosed this at the 21st edition of the PMB scorecard series in Abuja, yesterday, saying opposition elements plot to deploy   fake news and disinformation to destabilise the polls. He, however, said the Federal Government is considering options (which he did not disclose) to address the issue. Said Mohammed: “With about three weeks to the Presidential and National Assembly elections on February 25, I can say, unequivocally, that there has been a worrisome and astronomical increase in the use of fake news and disinformation, making this a clear and present danger to the success of the elections.  “This increase is undoubtedly the work of some destabilising agents, some of them linked to the opposition. They are churning out fake news and disinformation on an industrial scale. Their sole aim is to destabilise the electoral process and plunge the nation into crisis. I have always said that this government will not stand by and allow some miscreants with access to phones and data to destabilise the country. I am, therefore, warning the purveyors of fake news and disinformation to desist.  “The government is not and cannot be helpless. We have a range of options to checkmate the use of fake news and disinformation, and we are looking at the best options to ensure that the agents of destabilisation do not thwart the success of the elections with their unscrupulous resort to fake news and disinformation. A word is enough for the wise.” Meanwhile, Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo, has said his ministry issued over 4,000 Export Permit Certificates to oil and gas exporting companies amounting to $470 billion FOB Value. Adebayo also disclosed that Nigeria is now able to produce military uniforms locally. He said new businesses have been added to the country’s gross domestic product through adoption of the backward integration model. “I’m proud to say that our military uniforms are now being produced in Nigeria…Our ministry has helped to set up new businesses, employing people by the backward integration programme that we have embarked on.  A lot of people have gone back to the farm…We are doing very well, especially in agricultural produce and non-oil export, including urea fertiliser and ginger. It’s very popular and doing very well in Europe.”