From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja A group, under the auspices of Coalition for Good Governance and Change Initiative, on Monday, issued a 72-hour ultimatum to occupy and ground Abuja should the Chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Abdulrasheed Bawa, fail to obey court order committing him to prison. The coalition also lamented that the EFCC boss has failed to live up to the expectations of protecting the integrity and image of President Muhammadu Buhari, especially in the areas of anti-corruption, human right and democratic governance. National Coordinator of the coalition, Okpokwu Ogenyi, gave the ultimatum at a press conference in Abuja on Monday. “It is a sad moment in the history of Nigeria that those saddled with the responsibility of protecting the Constitution of Nigeria are the ones abusing it. As Nigerians, we believed that, the youths in leadership position should be more proactive, coordinated and humane in discharging their duties while protecting the integrity and image of President Buhari, especially in the areas of anti-corruption, human right and democratic governance. “With the appointment of Bawa as the Executive Chairman of EFCC, Nigerians expected a paradigm shift in the operational areas of the commission which we anticipated a radical improvement in terms of service delivery to earn the confidence of Nigerians, but the reverse is the case. “Here is a vibrant young man who has been committed to prison in two different occasions regarding his abuse of court order. His reign has seen the worst relationship between the EFCC and the judiciary, an arm supposedly used to convict financial offenders by the same commission. “We are further worried when in recent times, Bawa was committed for contempt by several courts of competent jurisdiction on the account of his willful abuse of Court Orders, but he continues to go about enjoying the protection of the establishment against the rule of law. This act is against the workings of the Buhari’s administrative policy of the rule of law. “Recently, a Lokoja High Court convicted and ordered his arrest and committal to Kuje Correctional Center until he purged himself of the contempt, nevertheless he proceeded to harass, investigate and prosecute those who secured this rightful orders. “The EFCC Chairman even expanded his persecution to other individuals who has ever done a lawful business with the Kogi State government without fault,” he said. “At this eve of transition, we are ready to protect Mr President’s image and preserve his legacy. We call on President Buhari to call Mr Bawa to order by not allowing him to live above the constitution, but to obey it. “We make bold to say that, if Bawa fails to obey the various courts orders including the ones that committed him to Kuje Correctional Center within 72 hours, we shall mobilize in thousands to the street, to press home our demands, because Nigeria is not Banana Republic where there is no law and order,” he warned.