By Sunday Ani Labour Party (LP) House of Representatives candidate in Amuwo Odofin, Otunba George Folarin Olawande Adegeye, fondly called Omo Geye, has promised to offer quality representation to the people if elected into the Green Chamber of the National Assembly on February 25. He made the pledge yesterday at a campaign rally across Amuwo-Odofin. He stated that his pact with the people remained intact just as he had done before his decision to vie for the seat. Adegeye noted that having been raised within the locality and having turned out to be successful in life, it was incumbent on him to ensure that Amuwo-Odofin Federal constituency becomes greater. He said: “I can assure you that you won’t regret it. Vote Peter Obi for president and Folarin Adegeye for the Federal House of Representatives. Vote Labour Party; Labour, Labour, Labour all the way. “I was raised in this Mile 2 Estate, so my antecedents are well known to many here, unlike those who really had no roots here. Ask them where exactly their parent’s house is located here in Amuwo-Odofin or Oriade? They cannot point to any particular location. “My mother, the late Hon Risikat Ajoke Adegeye, while in the House of Assembly, helped a lot of people from their lowest ebb to a better state. So, it is somewhat innate in me to ensure the welfare of the people. “I run a business outfit where I have 125 staff and it is doing well. So, my venturing into politics is not for pecuniary reasons, but a will to serve. I lost my mother in 2020. You all know how passionate she was about the development of Amuwo-Odofin. “Your security is assured. They can’t do anything; we are fully on ground. Tell them we are taking over Amuwo-Odofin.” The large turnout of supporters at the rally truly showed that Omo Geye as he is fondly called has a massive followership among the Amuwo Odofin electorate. This was demonstrated by some of the supporters at the rally ground, who chorused: “He is, indeed, a brand that we so much identify with, and surely, he will win the election.” Reacting to the massive turnout at the rally, the Head of Media and Strategic Communications Bureau, Omogeye Campaign Organisation, Ambassador Kingsley Nwanze, said: “Among all the other contenders, he stands out because ever since the days of his late mum, he has been sold out to humanity on every sphere. He is a candidate we are sure will deliver by the special grace of God. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “You can just imagine. This is like a Governor leading a rally. Look at the vehicular chain and crowd dancing and trekking with determination and hope. This is awesome and that is the least I can say. No other candidate has been able to sustain this kind of tempo in recent times. This is a testimony that Omo Geye is greatly loved by the people.” The mega rally campaign train moved all the way from Eko Akete junction by Second Rainbow which was the convergence point to Agidimo, Alaba Express, Fatgbems, Mile 2 Estate, Aroso Market, Mama Jay, Shoprite junction, Apple Junction, Lakeview by Ago Bridge, down to AP Junction, 31 Road, 32 Road, 22 Road, 23 Road with a stop-over at 23 Road Market. It continued from the 4th Avenue, making another stop-over at 6th Avenue Bridge and 11 Junction, before moving back to the Eko Akete Junction where the rally initially took off.