From Okwe Obi, Abuja  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Coalition of 10,000 civil society groups has assured the presidential candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), Rabiu Kwankwaso, of 15 million votes in the Saturday plebiscite. Some of the groups are Northern Ministers Forum, Rebuild Women and Youth Foundation, Greater Movement Network, National Responsible Youth Organization and The Determined Icons. Addressing newsmen yesterday in Abuja, Leader of the group, Bishop Godwin Abah, adjudged Kwankwaso as the best candidate among the plethora of persons vying for the plum office. To this end, Abah urged Atiku Abubakar, the standard bearer of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), to step down for the former Kano State governor. He said: “Coalition of Civil Society Groups meticulously assessed leading political parties and their presidential candidates noted their antecedents and democratic credentials in the quest for a strong, united, progressive, prosperous, equitable and just democratic society. “And, considering the views of most rural dwellers with permanent voters cards the Coalition interacted with who expressed confidence in Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso for touching their lives in many ways and desire him to be President, has unanimously selected His Excellency, Engr. Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso as the best presidential candidate, accordingly adopted him for President in the Saturday 25th February 2023, presidential election.  “A man of enormous intellectual capacity and capability, Kwankwaso is an embodiment of patriotism, integrity, humility, nobility and versatility with a vision, mission and blueprint for a new, better, greater and prosperous Nigeria. “He is the only presidential candidate who have traveled across Nigeria on road, visited more States, Senatorial Districts and Local Government Areas more than other contenders for president to articulate people-oriented projects and programmes to boost their standards of living.  “A servant-leader with a milk of human kindness, Kwankwaso transformed Kano State as a two- term Governor and will bring his wealth of experience as former Minister of Defence, Ambassador, Senator, Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives etc., to bear on national governance as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “It was also the opinion of the rural Nigerians that the Coalition interfaced with that Alhaji Atiku Abubakar should set aside his presidential aspiration for a dynamic, pragmatic, energetic and resourceful Kwankwaso.  “Accordingly, the Coalition calls on Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the Peoples Democratic Party’s presidential candidate to step down for the NNPP presidential candidate, Engr. Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso to avoid unnecessary splitting of votes in the North.  “Kwankwaso will inject fresh air in governance, restore hope to a bewildered nation that has seen more carnage than dividends of democracy and build a new Nigeria we all desire. “Atiku has done his best for the nation, we appreciate his contribution as Vice President of Nigeria. He remains a statesman.  “Today, the nation is at a crossroads, the destiny of Nigeria is at stake and requires the political sagacity, capacity, savvy and tenacity of purpose of Kwankwaso – Idahosa Presidency to redirect the country from its perilous course. Kwankwaso stands out among other contenders for president. “The Coalition of Civil Society Groups calls on Nigerians to vote for Kwankwaso ‘s New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP).  “Vote for competent leadership, vote for a new, better, greater and prosperous Nigeria.”