Endorses Senator Oduah for re-election Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha The members of the old Onitsha Local Government Area, comprising of Ogbaru, Onitsha North and Onitsha South have lambasted Omambala people over their clannish and sectional sentiments in Anambra North senatorial zone. The group said that some Omambala people took to various social media platforms erroneously claiming and insisting that the office of Senator representing Anambra North, should be held by persons of Omambala extraction. In a communique issued at the enlarged meeting of old Onitsha LGA signed by Chief Ekemezie Chibuzor (Onitsha North), Emeka T. Ossai (Ogbaru), Emeka Mozie (Onitsha South) among others condemned their actions describing it as divisional tendency in the zone. The communique read in part: “Indeed, we speak with one voice in condemnation of this obvious attack and conspiracy by some individuals from the Omambala axis who have gone ahead to engage media partners who spend day and night, castigating our people and claiming that we are not deserving of having a senator emanating from our people. “For the avoidance of doubt, if there is any area that should be clamouring for Equity, it is Onitsha North, Onitsha South and Ogbaru because the Omambala axis has always retained the upper hand in terms of how political offices are shared in Anambra North and the facts bear us witness. “Omambala has had far more sons and daughters representing Anambra North in the persons of Senator Edwin Onwudiwe from Oyi, Senator Chuba Okadigbo from Oyi, Senator Emma Anosike from Anambra East, Senator Alphonsus Igbeke from Anambra east and Senator Margery Okadigbo from Oyi. “Again, note that in terms of political office opportunities zoned to Anambra North, the Omambala axis has always retained an almost exclusive right to present candidates and this clearly showed in the appointment of a deputy governor’s where Onitsha North, Onitsha South and Ogbaru were never considered but Omambala presented the underlisted persons when the opportunity arose; Dr Chudi Nwike from Oyi an Chief Chinedu Emeka from Anambra West. “It gets even worse when we consider that even when opportunities arose to present a person of Anambra North extraction for ministerial position, the Omambala axis presented one in the person of Chief Chinedu Emeka from Anambra West. “We must never forget in a hurry that it is this same Omambala axis that produced a Governor for 8 years in the person of Chief Willie Maduabuchukwu Obiano from Anambra East when the office was zoned to Anambra North and to further add insult to the injury suffered by Onitsha North, Onitsha South and Ogbaru axis, the Omambala zone concurrently retained the office of Speaker of the Anambra State House of Assembly in the person of the Rt. Hon. Uche Victor Okafor who hails from Ayamelum LGA. “We hereby resolve as follows; That we condemn in it’s entirety, the recent campaign of calumny leveled against our axis and candidate. That Onitsha North, Onitsha South and Ogbaru have historically, clearly and consistently had the short end of the stick in terms of how political parties zoned to Anambra North have been shared. “That our historical disposition of allowing ourselves to be cheated out of the scheme of things should never be regarded as a sign of weakness or disunity within our ranks. That Equity simply demands that we be allowed to retain the office of Senator. “That it is absurd and self immolating to be talking about power rotation at a time when Anambra North is eminently positioned to have a ranking lawmaker and principal officer at the 10th assembly. “That the most important consideration for making the choice of a senator should be the capacity of the candidate as opposed to the area where they emanate from and that it is clear to all that a ranking and senior lawmaker, stands more chance to not only be heard but attract more dividends of democracy to Anambra North. “We call on our brothers and sisters of Omambala extraction to ignore the clamour by persons within their ranks to deny Anambra North the chance of having a principal officer representing us at the Senate and enjoin them to join hands with us in electing a formidable and people oriented Senator in the person of Princess Stella Adaeze Oduah” it stated