By Christopher Oji  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. At least two persons died, two pregnant women, and two children ,were rescued when a fully loaded fuel Tanker rammed into four tricycles at Ikotun, Lagos .  This is barley two days after a  truck, conveying 20ft container, fell from Ojuelegba bridge, Lagos, killing nine persons, and injuring many. The yesterday accident, which occurred around 12:30 pm,involved a fully loaded container truck, with number plate, JJJ 125,and four  commercial tricycles popularly known as Keke Marwa, with registration numbers: LSD 83 QM;AKD 690 QK, and AKL 87 QF. According to a witness, Ben Edewade, the driver of one of the tricycles and  one passenger died on the spot, while four others were injured,” I am suspecting that the driver was on drugs, because he was on high speed on a small,but a busy road. I thank God, that the casualty figure was not more than that .I just pray that the two kids, and the  pregnant women, will survive the accident”. Director, Public Affairs and Enlightenment Department , Lagos State Transport Management Authority (LASTMA), Mr. Adebayo Taofiq, confirmed that the agency,rescued four victims, two pregnant women, and two children , while two bodies were evacuated from the accident scene. According to Toafiq, LATSMA personnel handed over the rescued victims to Policemen from Ikotun Police division, who took them to  General Hospital for treatment. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the fully loaded container truck ,JJJ 125,had a brake failure, and crushed three tricycles by a valley around synagogue, when going towards Ikotun. “The LASEMA, immediately moved the tanker with the damaged tricycles to Ikotun Police Station . “Other emergency responders,  including the police from Ikotun Police Station,were at the scene of the accident. “General Manager of LASTMA Mr Bolaji Oreagba, however, warned tanker owners,and drivers, to always  ensure that their trucks are properly checked, and are in good conditions before embarking on any journey”. However, a police source at Ikotun police division told our Correspondent that the tanker driver was in the police protection custody, while he would soon be interrogated after recuperating from the shock of the accident, and escaping from jungle justice.