From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Many residents of Ibadan, and some other parts of Oyo State, are currently in panic mode over some strange aircrafts that have been flying in low altitude above roof tops in different communities in the state. The yellow strange aircrafts have been sighted in areas, including Ojoo, Akobo, Olodo, Iyana Church, Arulogun, Iwo Road Orogun, Alakia, Adegbayi, Ajia and Agbowo in Ibadan, spread across various local government areas, including Akinyele, Lagelu, Egbeda, Ona Ara, Ibadan North, and Ibadan North East. Another person also said he sighted the aircraft in Iseyin in Iseyin Local Government. The aircraft have been flying some metres away from the roof tops of different communities, which has attracted the attention of many people, expressing fear that the aircrafts might have been carrying out surveillance operations for unknown mission.  One of the comments that went viral on the social media in respect of the strange aircraft gave more details on the development. It was made in the afternoon of last Saturday. The commentator captured one of the aircraft with a camera, and wrote: “Surveillance Alert: This aircraft as captured in the picture has been hovering over the vicinities of the neighborhood of  Ejioku, Olodo, Odan, Iyalode Freedom Estate, Alaafia Community, Olorunda, Aliiri, Ajara, Lakuru, Idi-Ape in the last two hours.                 “It has been variously sighted, parading the vicinities  at a very low altitude. Panic has currently set in at the community as people are highly disturbed of their expected smooth activities. People are alien to the information on what is really going on !  Can someone assist further in setting the reason right?” A resident of Arulogun in Akinyele Local Government, Mr. Debo Adeoye, also said: “Honesty, some people thought it’s helicopter, no, no, no, they’re small size aeroplanes, like drones, maximum of 30-50 passengers. It can’t contain hundred. From where to where, because they are crossing (flying over) Odogbo Barracks, moving towards Oyo North/Central or Ogun State territory. But not far, I’m presently at Ojoo.” A resident of Iseyin, Abbey Alhazan, also said the strange aircraft “passed through Iseyin on Friday evening around 6pm. I thought it was transporting politicians.” But sources at the right quarters in the security agencies said some aircraft known as ‘Xcalibur’ for special missions to some areas in Oyo, Ogun  and Kwara States. They enjoined residents not to panic with the presence of the aircraft, but go about their lawful businesses without fear or intimidation.” Another source stated that the Federal Government might be conducting an aerial geophysical survey, based on a circular that had had been released by the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development to that effect.  According to the source, “A circular was released by the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development months back, notifying the general public that the Mineral Sector Support for Economic Diversification (MINDIVER) project, a World Bank-assisted project under the Ministry of Mine and Steel-Development ,will embark on an Airborne Geophysical Survey Activity in 19 states of the federation, covering 112 local Government Ares, to determine accurate mineral location using the modern-day aeromagnetic mechanism. “The states to be covered by the survey includes:Kwara, Ekiti, Ondo, Osun, Oyo, Ogun, and Ebonyi. Others are Enugu, Cross River, Akwa Ibom, Kaduna, Niger, Kogi, Taraba, Benue, Plateau, Nasarawa, Bauchi, and the F.C.T.”