By Chukwuma Umeorah  The Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI) has said that the present crisis due to scarcity of currency has caused over N5 billion in damage and destruction of over seven banks’ branches in the sector. This is even as it said that conflicting directives from different authorities have continued to fuel the crisis.  The president of ASSBIFI, Olusoji Oluwole, while condemning the attacks, at a press conference on Thursday before the union instructed its members to stay at home, said it was caused by conflicting orders from the Supreme Court, the Presidency and state governments, which are contrary to the directives of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).  “The authorities were dishing out different information which is causing confusion among Nigerians and causing more problems. I do not understand how the supreme court would pass a judgement, the Federal Government (FG) says another thing and the state government says a totally different thing and in the center of all these, are the banks.”  He further cleared the air by emphasizing that banks and financial institutions in Nigeria are regulated by the apex bank and are only answerable to the CBN and its directives.  He however called for synergy and engagements of all relevant stakeholders at fashioning out immediate ways to enhance alternative means of transactions even as he urged the FG to call state governments to order.   Highlighting further on the destruction due to attacks on banks, Oluwole said there have been reported cases of deaths following violent protests and attacks in some states.  He said bank branches were burnt, Automated Teller Machines, (ATMs) destroyed and workers were attacked to the point of destroying their cars and personal effects ultimately threatening their life.  He however appealed to the public to desist from such unwarranted attacks and destruction of properties as they would proverbially be cutting their noses to spite their faces.  In the same vein, he challenged the media in their reportage as he described the situation as sensitive that should be reported truthfully and factually.  “We also challenge the news media to be investigative, verify and probe their information so that the nation and the world will know the truth.  “We are in a critical period of our national development, and all hands must be on deck to bring Nigeria out of the woods. Fake and deceptive information must be checked at a time like this,” he said. The ASSBIFI president also called on security agencies to up their game in ensuring that law and order is maintained, and the life and properties of citizens are protected.