By Lukman Olabiyi Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Lagos State Magistrates’ Court,  Ebute Metta, has ordered the remand of Ikechukwu Daryl Ogbonna, over the death of his wife,  Abimbola Martins-Ogbonna. Ogbonna, was remanded following advice by the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), Lagos State, which says that Ogbonna should be charged for involuntary manslaughter. Reading out the DPP’s  advice, Magistrate Adebayo Kafayat Tella (Mrs), on  yesterday’s  proceeding, said the defendant would  be arraigned before the Lagos High Court, and should be remanded in custody pending his arraignment,and filing of information against him. Defence lawyer, Mr. Abubakar Yesufu,however, prayed the court to allow the Defendant to be released based on earlier bail conditions granted him. But, Tella, held that she lacked jurisdiction to entertain a case of involuntary manslaughter, hence, all bail applications,should be presented before the High court. The matter has been adjourned till March 7, 2023. Ogbonna, a 37-year-old,  car dealer, was arrested by the Lagos state police command over the death of his wife, Abimbola, in the Lekki area of the state. Ikechukwu, and Abimbola, had been married for 16 years, and the union is blessed with five children. The marriage, however, was fraught with disagreement, and alleged domestic violence. At the climax of their clash, the couple separated, but later  reunited. However, on Saturday, October 15, there was a fire incident at their Lekki mansion, and  Abimbola was caught in the inferno. She was rushed to a howspital, where she died as a result of the injuries she sustained. But, the deceased’s family, while demanding justice accused the police of cover-up, intimidation, and attempt to force the family into an  out-of-court settlement with Ogbonna, and also drop charges against him.  The family, also, alleged that the police had changed Ogbonna’s charges from manslaughter to negligence, so as the defendant would easily be bailed.  A  family member, Mr. Odiana Eriata, who was in court said that the issue of domestic violence ought to have been properly investigated, and appropriate charge should be preferred against the culprit.