A winner has emerged in the 2022 Artsforchange creative competition powered by First Bank. He is Oluwatobiloba Titiloye. Titiloye, who emerged victorious out of the seven finalists shortlisted from over 500 entries, was unveiled at a classy event put together by White and Black Ideas in conjunction with National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC) held at Freedom Park, Lagos  Other finalists were Okeke Chukwuemeka, Olayemi Olamilekan, Wahab Yemi, Emmanuel Okonkwo, Adewole Abraham Ayo and Lawal Abduraheem. While Titiloye went home with N500, 000, other six finalists received consolation cash prizes from Gobet247 in addition to certificate of participation. In his remarks, Loye Amzat explained that Arts for Change initiative is aimed at bringing the best out of the creative minds of the youngsters, and at the same time encourage their talent. While thanking First Bank for supporting the programme, he said the criteria for picking the winner include adherence to the theme: ‘Nigeria: Stronger Together’, as well as creativity, aesthetic and originality of the works. Former Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture in Lagos State, Mr. Steve Ayorinde, who led the panel of judges, said it was a unanimous decision in choosing the winner. “What we chose as number one spoke to the fact that, that particular artwork stands out. It spoke to the theme: ‘Nigeria: Stronger Together’. But the fact remains that all the finalists are winners. We were exceedingly impressed by their creativity. It’s very commendable, and to the organisers, they shouldn’t stop at the maiden edition, they should continue,” he stated. In his keynote address, Director General of NCAC, who was represented by Edwin Ezenobie, commended the organisers, saying the initiative is totally in line with the vision of the council. According to him, “our young ones must be encouraged to utilise their creative talent in a way that will promote our culture and society. This is one of the avenues to achieve that and it’s very commendable.” The winner, Oluwatobiloba Titiloye, said he was inspired by the story of his grandfather to make the outstanding work. He, however, praised the organisers and most especially, First Bank for making him the first winner at the maiden edition of the competition. Other dignitaries at the event include Ms Tosin Ajayi; Publisher of QED, Mr. Olumide Iyanda; boxing promoter, Remi Aboderin, and Henry Alade.