“God bless you, Prof. Uzorma. Last year April, I ordered three different bottles of your oil for a problem that almost claimed my life. It was a land matter between man and demons. I must tell you that God answered me in November last year and proved every demonic power wrong. I am victorious at last…God bless you richly.” Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. – Mr. Theo, 08066637564 “Dear Prof., I wish to thank God for the oil that I ordered from you. My mother was mad for years and I was accused of using her for my political attainment. My political enemies said so many things against me; even my wife did not believe me. I was suspected of being in the occult because things worked for me until I got to my present position, which has attracted jealousy and envy both from the national to local levels. When I read your article for the first time in the month of May last year, I decided to give the oil a trial, which led to my ordering it. I managed to visit my home and prayed for my mother and got her anointed with the oil I got from you. I strictly followed the instruction you gave and before I ended the prayer, my mother was healed of 10 years of madness. Today, I have been vindicated by God, May God continue to be with you for using you to deliver mankind.” (Name and telephone number withheld) There is something about truth that makes it more interesting than fiction. Truth is undying and very axiomatic that the only way to destroy it is to define it. If one defines truth, he limits it. This article is but an attempt to re-examine the cosmic cycle associated with the spiritual indaba of Christ in this era. I must confess hitherto that the Christian concept of ‘Immaculate Conception’ has been a controversial issue in every aspects of human history. In the history of Religion, it has taken different dimensions, to the extent that those who propagated it later doubted and negated it. They knew it in the temple of silence where truth and words were symbolically situated; but when asked to explain what they know, their lips were moved but sounds were not heard. This is the paradox of higher life and the indivisible nature of tripartite reality of divine consciousness. How could the unborn be born into the sphere of matter, energy, space and time? Reading this as the movement of the lips and not hearing sound is the reason the most difficult thing shouldn’t be understood by inordinate and immoderate corporal beings. The Psalmist attests to this thus, “Deep calls unto deep…” Ps. 42:7.  To understand this, therefore, one needs to seek divine guidance against falsehood and other related pseudo-philosophical sciences and knowledge that give credit to error and ignorance. To appreciate the above, one should know that he who learns the rules of wisdom without conforming to them in any way is the same as one who ploughs in his field but does not sow at all. In the words of William Cowper, “Knowledge is proud that he has learned so much; wisdom is humble that he knows not more.” Those who are proud to have acquired knowledge of divinity that ended up doubting the Immaculate Conception of Christ in his first advent lack the propensity of wisdom that desires to learn in humility. Immaculate Conception is the Roman Catholic dogma that asserts that Mary the mother of Jesus Christ was preserved free from what theology refers to as “Original Sin” from the first instance of her conception. This has been argued by some Orthodox theologians that reject the Immaculate Conception of Mary on the ground that Mary cannot be exonerated from Original Sin. They contend that Mary shared from the ontological (Adamic) nature, which made her a sinner too. Though this aspect of discussion does not attract my maximum interest in this context as the load and burden given to me by this article is certainly not heavier than my academic shoulders. I wish to accentuate here that Mary whose bowel was used by the Supreme Father to launch the Messiah, the Christ, into the physical system of reality for the salvation of mankind, among other major other things, fulfilled her assignment by cosmic cycle of birth and rebirth. Mary was a virgin and was prepared for that purpose, ancient history of Mariology revealed that Mary was a bird in the Holy temple and during her dedication in the ancient temple, strange things happened that authenticated the fact that she was a star cum divine being set apart as at that time for such great and divine assignment. In Christ’s first advent, He entered the womb of Mary and became the divine logos, which John spoke about. Christ, the born but unborn king as a human God was from the beginning with the Father (unborn). The Bible says, “In the beginning was the word (logos) and the logos (word) was with God, and the logos was God” John 1:1. From the foregoing, it is evident that the authors of the four gospels take off from where the first book of the Bible, Genesis took off, “In the beginning.” However, none of them was able to tell, the beginning of what? In the beginning of all things, Christ the logo was, this simply means that He did not begin like us who began in time. He always was! Yes, Christ is, was and is forever God.  Logos is a Greek word meaning word, speech and utterance. Derivative of the Greek verb legein, logos essentially means any word uttered with profound meaning, with significance, a speech that conveys a massage. Here the writer personalizes it, to the extent of taking up the image of person who is spoken of, and in which speech action takes place. The logos of John 1:1 is the same logos in Genesis 1:1. Martin Heidegger gave a profound philosophical-cum-hermeneutical approach to the term, from the ancient Greece and states that logos meant more than just a word or utterance. He pointed out that logos has more expansive meaning of revealing, manifesting, unveiling and developing. Here logos becomes the revelation of truth as Christ authenticated that He is the truth. John 14:16. When we relate the above to the CHRIST, it follows that (the logos) was one from the beginning with, and who is God, is hitherto revealed to us in the (anthropomorphic) incarnation as the word of, and the person of the human God. The Bible confirms this thus, “For in Him (the logos) dwells all the fullness of the God head bodily” Col. 2:9. Christ, therefore, is a historical person (human being), as a human God, He has a history because he was born of a woman as the word made flesh that dwell among us, John 1:14.  The unborn became human that we may become gods in Him. The aspect of his divine incipient being in his first advent became multifarious and multidimensional to the extent that it is hitherto commercialized. However, his divine nature in all aspects is intact as they interact homogeneously, accordingly, in accordance with the concomitant law of consciousness. He came as a man via the womb of HIS chosen divine vessel being part of his already reserved incipient being at the point when in divine esoteric history there is no dichotomy between man and woman. This must be argued by those who have limited themselves by credo of religion and not by the immensity or enormity of spirituality.    In His second advent, at dazzling  glance, history repeated itself to the extent that the way and manner the King of kings and Lord of lords hitherto hiding in the midst of sheep and goats manifested into the sphere of human nature and caused internal rapture into the physical system of reality at midnight is scientifically unimaginable and inconceivable. Yes, his advent caused the midnight rapture in the Etheric realm into the physical, hence there came a shift and wobbling in the spiritual axis closer to the hidden ladder that controls the East, West, North and South of the material universe. The shift brought all spirits, man and woman, good and bad together to work for a time until the period of separation.