From Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja United States,has said effective March 1, 2023, its mission in Nigeria will increase visitor visa validity from 24 to 60 months for Nigerians who want to enter the United States temporarily for business or tourism.  The United States Diplomatic Mission to Nigeria, in a statement, also said the visa validity extension allows Nigerians to use the visa for 60 months to make short trips to the United States for tourism or business purposes before having to renew their visa.  “The visa application fee, currently USD160, will not increase as a result of the increased visa validity. “Increasing visa validity is one of several initiatives taken by the United States to reduce visa appointment wait times in Nigeria. The US Mission continues to offer no-interview visa renewals to those who meet the eligibility criteria.  Appointments for no-interview visa renewals are readily available,” the United States Diplomatic Mission to Nigeria said. On no-interview visa renewal, the United States said: “You may be eligible for a visa renewal without an interview if your application is for a B1/B2, F, M, J (academic only), H, L, or C1/D (combined only) visa, and you meet each of the following criteria: “You are physically present in Nigeria. Your previous visa was issued in Nigeria. Your previous visa is in the same classification as your current application. Your previous visa was a full-validity, multiple-entry visa. “Your previous visa expired within the last 48 months or will expire in the next three months from the date of application.” Other criteria, according to the United States, include: “You have all your passports covering the entire period since receiving the previous visa and the passport with the most recent visa. “You have never been arrested or convicted of any crime or offence in the United States, even if you later received a waiver or pardon. “You have never worked without authorisation or remained beyond your permitted time in the United States.”