From Fred Itua, Abuja  The Social Democratic Party (SDP), on Wednesday night in Abuja, endorsed the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, ahead of Saturday’s polls. In a statement made available to newsmen on Thursday morning by Chief Supo Shonibare, national chairman and Saleh Dass, national secretary, the party explained its reasons.  The statement read: “We deliberated on the report of the Senator Ebenezer Ikeyina Committee, investigating the allegation that some of our leaders from Oyo State, issued a statement declaring support for a candidate other than the Labour Party’s Mr. Peter Obi. “The NWC has accepted and adopted the disciplinary action recommended by the Ikeyina Committee and suspended the leaders involved. Should they object to this decision, they have the right to appeal to the NWC, through the National Secretary of the Party. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “With the presidential elections only a day away, the NWC again considered its position on which candidate best demonstrates an ability to engender a stable polity, as well as provide prudent economic management of our nation’s resources.  “Judicious consideration was given to the contending candidates, especially with regard to which best bears testament to the goal of rotation of the office of the President and the need to continue to encourage inclusivity in the polity. “Giving consideration to both internal and external factors, and our earlier decision to support an opposition party candidate in the presidential elections, the SDP reaffirms its support for Mr. Peter Obi and Dr. Yusuf Baba-Ahmed Datti in their bid for the Presidency and Vice Presidency respectively.  “The party therefore enjoins its members and all Nigerians desirous of a stable, inclusive and forward-leaning polity to come out en masse to vote for the Labour Party in the Presidential elections scheduled for Saturday, February 25th, 2023.”