From Gyang Bere, Jos Former Governor of Plateau State, Senator Jonah David Jang has urged Governor Simon Lalong to account to Plateau people what he has used their mandate for in the last seven years and stop misleading the people ahead of the 2023 elections. He described Lalong’s tenure as wasteful to Plateau citizen and urged the people to hold him accountable during the polls by rejecting the APC for inflicting pains, agony and sorrow on Nigerians. Jang in a statement on Sunday and signed by his Media Consultant, Clinton Garuba while reacting to misleading statement credited to Lalong that Jang is working for APC presidential candidate Asiwaju Bola Tinubu by virture of being a member of the G-5 PDP Governors. He described Lalong as a daydreamer for thinking that the G5 PDP governors and allies including former Governor Jang are supporting the APC presidential candidate. “It seems however that, Governor Lalong has just woken up from his slumber of almost 8 years and discovered he has spent these years doing nothing in the interest of Plateau people, hence the degeneration to day dreaming. But for the misleading statements he made, there was no need to dignify him with a response since we know that anything outside his written speeches are not only disjointed but profane babbling that makes no semantic sense. “For someone who has spent all these years as governor not doing what makes for the welfare and wellbeing of his people; in addition to the dismal performance in terms of basic infrastructure, healthcare, tourism, education and all the sectors necessary for the people, he should be hiding his face in shame rather than trying to denigrate the former governor whose records of performance dot the Plateau landscape. He explained that the APC has market the opposition PDP for its unfriendly policies that culminated into underperformance of the government in nearly eight years of the administration. “Nigerians have been subjected to tortuous life never imagined and they are willing to express their anger through the ballot box. Thinking of delivering APC top to bottom by Lalong and his ilk is mere wishful thinking. No right thinking person will consider an extension of the present situation we have found ourselves in. That is the kind of hardship that Lalong and co want to perpetuate just in the name of seeking relevance.” The statement noted that the Jang administration regretted to have left four months unpaid salaries contrary to the reverberation of Lalong during the APC campaign rally in Wase. “Former Governor Jang is not proud to have left unpaid salaries but the most recent refund for the infrastructure executed by Jang to the tune N6.5bn is evidence that he spent Plateau people’s commonwealth in their interest. “The recent N6.5bn is only a part of the already refunded funds Jang administration spent in constructing federal roads. If Lalong has received such a huge amount, why then is he still owing salaries when there is no infrastructure to justify the spending of the equally huge allocation the state has received in addition to the mindless borrowings he has engaged in. “Governor Lalong should stop referring Plateau citizens to what happened in 2015 and market himself and his so called candidates through his performance of his nearly 8 years administration. The people are watching and they will hold you accountable at the poll for your inept leadership, underperformance and the shame you have brought to Plateau.” He stated.