From Okey Sampson, Umuahia Abia State Commissioner of Police, Mustapha Bala has warned those planning to perpetuate violence in the state on February 25 and March 11, days of the 2023 general elections to have a rethink or be ready to face the consequences of their actions. CP Bala who gave the warning at the Police Officer’s Mess in Umuahia, on Tuesday, said the Abia State Command of the Police and other sister security agencies in the state have mapped out measures to ensure the state witnessed hitch-free elections. The police boss equally informed that the command and other security agencies have worked out strategies to guarantee protection of both sensitive and non sensitive materials, as well as lives of the electoral officials, ad hoc workers including the electorate before, during and after the election. Bala charged politicians and party agents to avoid acts capable of causing chaos within and outside the polling units, or other relevant centres. “As a result, all eligible voters are expected to turn out enmass in order to exercise their franchise in very conducive environment free of rancour and acrimony. “A taste of the actionable synergy is the joint show of force carried out in the state capital and simultaneously in all the Area Commands in the State”. He assured that his men have been enlightened on their roles within this period and admonished them to be apolitical, firm and professional in the discharge of their constitutional responsibilities. “The Security operatives will not hesitate to arrest any person or group of persons irrespective of societal position wanting to truncate the relative peace hitherto enjoyed by all Abians.” Bala used the occasion to thank the Inspector General of Police, IGP Alkali Baba Usman, for promoting six officers of the command from the rank of Superintendent to Chief Superintendent of Police (SP to CSP) and for releasing of the sum of N11, 888.30 to next-of-kin of deceased officers and men of the command who died in active service. The money he said was under the “Group Life Assurance Benefits and IGP Family Welfare Insurance Scheme”.