By Chinelo Obogo  Deputy governor of Lagos State, Obafemi Hamzat, has urged Lagosians to support the candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) for Eti Osa Federal constituency, Olajide Obanikoro. Hamzat, who was at Eti Osa, yesterday, to flag off Obanikoro’s campaign, urged Lagosians not to elect new candidates but to insist on re-electing experienced people who are competent and whom he said Obanikoro represents. “If you recall, we had a president who said election is a do-or-die affair but in the APC, we believe it is a do-and-live affair.  “I want to admonish our children who are on social media not to listen to those who are always lying with fake statistics. The question we should ask them is what they did when they were governor. I can tell you our presidential candidate is above his peers and he will win the election. “With that said, I urge everyone to vote for all our candidates and most especially, we must support Obanikoro as he seeks re-election into the House of Representatives. He has performed well and he deserves our support,” he said. Also, former minister if defence, Musliu Obanikoro, who is the father of the candidate, said his son has performed excellently well and deserves re-election. “I am not here because Jide is my son but I am here supporting him because he is a performer. I am not given to massaging anyone’s ego, I am only saying this because he has done well. He has moved motions and sponsored bills. By returning him to the House of Representatives, we are ensuring we get value for our votes because he will perform even better. “It is not wise for us to elect someone who is new and who doesn’t know the rudiments of the legislature. Eti Osa needs the experience of Jide and we are confident he will perform well,” he said. The APC candidate said: “I urge Eti Osa constituents to elect me for continuity and for the experience that I am bringing to bear. I had the opportunity to represent them in the last three years and six months today and what I have done speaks for itself. I have presented three bills and moved eight motions that have to do with Eti Osa and Nigeria as a people.  “I’ve facilitated about eight roads, four schools, two clinics, over 300 streetlights across Eti Osa. We have empowered our people by giving them cash grants, equipment, tools for artisans to make them better.  “My priority is to make sure the bills I have presented pass through all the stages and become Acts and also for the motions I moved to be acted upon. I have opened doors for our fintech companies to come to me so I will know how to help them. “As we go into the elections, I urge everyone to shun violence during politics. Election will come and go but we will remain.”