From Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure  National Assembly Candidates of the New Nigeria Peoples Party, (NNPP) in Ondo State have berated the All Progressives Congress (APC) led federal government over its insensitivity to the lingering fuel crisis and cash crush in the country. They noted that the current situation has paralyzed economy in the country and called for an urgent action from the government. The candidate of the party for Ondo south senatorial district, Segun Ehinmisan while speaking berated the APC led federal government over its insensitivity and inability to fulfil the party’s campaign promises to Nigerians.   He said the APC has reneged in its promises to make life better for the people who voted them into power and urged Nigerians to vote for a credible candidate in the forthcoming presidential election in order to revive the country’s economy and create more opportunities for businesses to thrive.  Ehinmisan condemned the spate of killings in some parts of the country and urged Nigerians to vote for NNPP’s Presidential flag bearer, Senator Rabi’u Kwankwaso, saying that his experience as a former minister of Defence, two terms Governor of Kano State and a Senator of the federal republic would be brought to bear if elected President in the forthcoming election. He said the artificial fuel scarcity has brought hardship on Nigerians and businesses, and called on the federal government to rise to its responsibility of alleviating the precarious conditions of the people of the country. He blamed the APC for the hardship the redesigned currency and fuel scarcity being experienced currently in the country. Also, the House of Representatives candidate of NNPP in Okitipupa /Irele Federal Constituency, Deji Ajayi said it is unfortunate that the hope of a better country was dashed by the APC led federal government. While commending the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for its decision to redesign naira, he frowned at the inability of the apex bank to sensitize Nigerians on the need to embrace the cashless policy of the federal government, the reason for the recent hiccup in banks which has also affected many businesses. Also speaking, the candidate of the party in Ileoluji okeigbo/Odigbo federal constituency, Prince Olubobade Ojo said Nigerians have been subjected to hardship and harped on the need to embrace the NNPP  as the elections draw  nearer. Olubobade condemned the recent fuel crisis and called for urgent action as this will affect the economy negatively and disenfranchise voters from exercising their civic responsibility. A prominent NNPP politician, who is also the House of Representatives candidate in Ilaje/Eseodo federal constituency, Odola Sunday,  condemned the lingering fuel crisis and urged  Nigerians to pray for a successful transition.