From Aloysius Attah, Onitsha Three gunmen and four policemen have been confirmed dead in an attack at Awada Police Division, Anambra State, yesterday morning. The attack came barely 24 hours after police neutralised six gunmen in another attack on 3-3 Police Station. The attackers at Awada Police station suspected to be members of the outlawed Eastern Security Network (ESN) invaded the police division in the early hours of yesterday with sporadic gunshots and explosive devices. A section of the police division and some vehicles were burnt in the attack even as both sides recorded casualties. Among the police officers who paid the supreme price is the Divisional Police Officer in charge of Isiowulu Police Division, a police station at the heart of Odume Layout, Obosi, which was shut down by the police authorities, and its men and officers relocated to Awada Division for security reasons. Anambra State Police Spokesman, Ikenga Tochi, who confirmed the incident in a press statement, said the police repelled the attack with the assistance of soldiers from 302 Artillery Regiment, Onitsha.  The statement reads: “Today, 20/02/2023, at about 02:20am, gunmen suspected to be IPOB/ESN attacked Awada Police Station in Idemili North LGA of Anambra State, using Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) and automatic firearms.  “In response to the attack, police operatives attached to Anambra State Command engaged the assailants jointly with troops from 302 Artillery Regiment of the Nigeria Army, in a gun duel and three members of the outlawed IPOB/ESN were fatally wounded, while three Kalashnikov rifles and one Automatic Pump Action gun were recovered from them.   “Other items recovered from the assailants include a brown Lexus 330 with reg. no. GWA 415BB ABJ, one unregistered KYMCO motorcycle suspected to be stolen properties, charms and other incriminating items.   “During a mop-up operation by police/military operatives, two male suspects reasonably believed to have participated in the attack were apprehended. Regrettably, four police operatives paid the supreme price, while a section of the station, one police patrol vehicle and three exhibit vehicles parked in the premises, were set ablaze by petrol bombs thrown into the station by the assailants.  “Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, Echeng E. Echeng, has since visited the incident scene, and after conducting spot assessments, ordered the immediate deployment of all the command’s operational/investigative assets to track down fleeing members of the murderous gang.  “The CP further appeals to residents of Awada and the good people of Anambra State to remain calm as the police, in collaboration with sister agencies, will not rest on its oars until the criminal elements tormenting the state are brought to justice,” the statement noted.