Events unfold at the speed of lightning in our clime. The nation seems to have become a busy police station where case booklets are opened every two hours. Statements from complainants fill complaint books in hours. When the funny statement that the security agencies were on the hunt of Central Bank Governor, Godwin Emefiele, it was evident that something was in the offing. How could security agents invite the Central Bank boss for alleged sponsorship of terrorism. I did not put a finger on the root ridiculous report until the Central Bank announced redesign of the currency. It became obvious to bullion van politicians that the game has changed. There would be no cash for vote buying, their strong point in elections. At that point it dawned on every discerning observer that Emefiele was hung on the cross for a reason. He had plans to redesign the currency and the election mafia knew that such move detracts heavily from their strategy.  When persuasions for him to back down fell in deaf ears, they planned to bring him down with the weird charge of sponsoring terrorism. I dare say that the foregoing is my conjecture. But recent developments have put paid to the conjecture. Governors, who lifted no finger when ASUU was strike, who did nothing about the persistent scarcity and hike in price of Premium Motor Spirit, have now requested an emergency meeting with the President of new naira notes.   The President seem unwilling to back down even as Central Bank redoubles efforts to make the new notes available. What those on the trail of Emefiele did not know is that the President had his back. He resisted every pressure until last Frida when he agreed to extend use of old notes by ten days, and another seven days for old notes to be returned to banks. The aim is to make the monetary policy more efficacious. The payment of ransom by the ubiquitous kidnappers would now be more difficult. Those who are hell bent on buying votes may have to look for other currencies to deploy. The thing to take to bank is that old currency would have been history when the election starts. The new notes are so scarce that you cannot find them for the ritual of vote buying. But everyone is paying the price, given that people are forced to do transfers for which banks are smiling. But I do not know how people would buy food stuff in the market through transfers. I know we would get there but we must find space for the unlettered market men and women who can hardly use their phones.  Former Central Bank Governor, Lamido Sanusi, who became the deposed Emir of Kano, drove every one into mobile banking, and people have since come to terms with that move. The implication is that everyone would adjust to a cashless society to which Emefiele rightly wants ton railroad everyone. But Nigerians would never get used to scarcity of petroleum products because of the attendant hardship. The current scarcity of Premium Moter Spirit has, as usual defied, explanations even when the government insists  it still pays subsidy. It is the irony of a nation which imports what it produces. Some states set up committees as though the committee would turn to fuel and fill the underground tanKS of petrol stations. One presidential candidate whose handlers have had a hard time containing his countless gaffes, says the foregoing are arrows to shoot down his presidential bid. His managers have swung into action to do damage control. They say he did not mean his comment in the way it is being reported. But in these days of social media and live broadcasts you cannot sweep anything under the carpet. The matter has elements of complication because Presidential candidate of the ruling party would seem to be undermining his party in the event that the statement is linked to him, it would also imply that the ruling party has set hurdles for its candidate. It has been said that Bola Ahmed Tinubu bulldozed his way to the party’s presidential ticked, perhaps against the will of some party big wigs, who swallowed the bitter pill at the primaries but bid their time to stop him at the crucial time. A house cannot be seen to be split down the middle and still stand. The right politics is to do what is considered in the larger interest of the nation even if someone’s ox is gored. The President would not keep a blind eye to anything in a bid to pave way for his party’s candidate. Governor El-Rufai says the allegation is laced with truth. He said some people in the Villa did not have their way, which is why they are bent on making Tinubu lose the election. In the next 26 days, the die would be cast. The groundswell of seeming opposition from within and public insinuations to that effect has made the presidency issue media statements to assure the public that the President supports his party’s candidate. He may not be on the campaign train, as he was when he was on the ballot, and an Igbo adage says that strength nose dives as people add years to their age. No one should expect a very senior citizen, like the President, to join campaign trains all the time. For all we know the President supports his party’s candidate but he would not stop the Central Bank from the naira redesign.  This would be the first in 19 years for an exercise that ought to have a five year interval. Tinubu’s outburst in Abeokuta, the other day, was akin to his famous Emi lo kan statement when it seemed the party ticket was slipping out of his fingers. It is the turn of Nigerians to take back their country, not anyone.