From Kenneth Udeh Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. As Senator Orji Uzor Kalu gradually wraps up his ongoing 2023 re-election campaign tour, the Chief Whip of the Senate on Saturday arrived at a “heroic reception” held in his honour by his constituents at Igbere Wards B, C (Amankalu) and A. The flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who hails from “Igbere” suburban town in Bende LGA of Abia State in Abia North was accorded the grand welcoming at each ward where he was garlanded with words of “praises” by his people for making them proud being the senator representing the senatorial district at the National Assembly. The former Abia Governor had within the past few weeks embarked on a campaign tour to engage his constituents in the entire 103 ABSIEC Wards on the need to return to the Senate. Kalu has received unanimous endorsements from all strata of his constituents who described his first term as “Superlative”. According to their submissions, the APC under Kalu’s tenure has been profitable to them, declaring their willingness to vote for its candidates during the February 25th elections. They said that the senator exceeded their expectations and the need for his return to consolidate his run of infrastructural projects facilitated in their region was imperative. Kalu’s arrival at all the wards charged the atmosphere amongst the already thrilled crowd who had already assembled and eagerly awaited his arrival. Amongst Kalu’s entourage were his campaign team and his kinsmen who include; Abia State Public Complaints Commissioner, Maduka Ukaegbu; Executive Secretary OUK Foundation, Rev Mrs Jemimah Ola Kalu; Chief Smart Ukoha; Hon. Chukwuemeka Izuka , Hon Paul Uche amongst others. As Kalu sauntered into the venue flanked by his entourage, excited constituents from all age groups swarmed around him, with some dancing and chanting his praises. The ambience of the venues lit up with music from the disk jockey and hundreds of Kalu’s kinsmen who wielded assorted APC campaign souvenirs, dressed in colourful attires bearing his pictures and slogans endorsing his senatorial bid. Community stakeholders at “Igbere Ward B” described the prestigious awards bestowed on Kalu within his three-year tenure by reputable organisations as a “pride” to their communities. Speaking on their behalf Elder of the community, Chief Peter Igwe said that the awards were true attestations of Senator Kalu’s landmark achievements in Constituency development noting that they were blessed to have him as their son. The emergence of Kalu as the senator with the highest number of bills amongst his Abia counterparts was saluted at “Igbere Ward C”, as his constituents applauded the senator for the achievement despite being a first-time senator. Prime Minister of Amankalu, Ezeogo Kalu Awa who spoke on behalf of the people recalled how Kalu with 25 legislative bills standing in his name was rated best in bill sponsorship using the 2019-2022 cumulative legislative as presented by OrderPaper.ng Nigeria’s parliamentary multimedia platform. Ezeogo commended Kalu for setting the pace and making their community proud at the Senate, while giving their endorsements he declared that they would ensure that all their votes will be in his favour. Arriving at his very own “Igbere Ward A”, Kalu was lauded for executing laudable projects which were said to be a continuation of his giant strides as Governor of the state. Chieftain of the community, Chief Obike. U.E. (Ichie Obudo) said that the senator was a rare gem and asset to the community and the nation at large. Obike praised Kalu for his achievements which include; the construction of 2-5 km rural roads across the five local governments in Abia North; renovation of schools, hospitals; provision of learning materials to students; distribution of over 1000 sewing machines, power generation sets, motorcycles to farmers and artisans. On his re-election, the community in similar manners at previous Wards through voice votes passed their votes of confidence backing Kalu’s bid for another term at the Senate. Some projects mentioned at each ward include; Installation of 500KVA transformer; the construction of a rural road at Smart Ukoha Avenue, Igbere; construction of AVM Chukwu Road; construction of Amankalu Umuobasi road, Igbere; construction of Elele road, Igbere; construction of Rev. Ekike Eme Educational centre, Onu Ibina; construction of community Hall at Umuisi and a list of others. Others present were; Traditional rulers, Top brass of party faithfuls, clergy, President General Igbere Welfare Union, Youth and Women’s groups. In a previous remark, Kalu told his constituents that the best was yet to come, stressing that what he had done which they considered unprecedented was the tip of the iceberg to him. Seeking their mandate Kalu disclosed that more roads, schools, and agricultural implements would be facilitated immediately after he returned while appreciating them for their support and the grand reception he was accorded. During the election, Kalu briefed his constituents on the procedures urging them to arrive early at the polling units in orderly and peaceful manner. He told them to use their index finger and cast their votes beside his party’s broom symbol logo on the ballot paper.