Politics can  be  injected  into  religion, social gathering and even the economy. No wonder the country’s activities have passed through turbulent days, which have witnessed many Nigerians expressing frustration, like the violent demonstrations that took place in Lagos, Ogun, Edo and other parts of the country while in search of the new naira notes recently. The sad situation has heightened the fear of anarchy and insurrection across the country.  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  From the seat government in Abuja to every nook and cranny of the country, there is fear and apprehension that the hardship caused by the scarcity of the newly introduced notes, which may push the people to the wall, and it is reasoned that this could  trigger off a national revolt against the government, thereby affecting the February presidential election and possibly other subsequent elections. Apart from the naira issue, the pending and protracted problem of fuel shortage has continued unabated. It is very clear that politicians have carefully injected politics into virtually every issue in the country. Today, we see the governors of Kaduna, Kogi and Zamfara states suing the federal government and issuing strongly-worded statements countering the federal government’s stand on the old and new naira notes policy. Governors like Nasir El-Rufai and Abdullahi Ganduje of Kaduna and Kano, respectfully, have challenged President Muhammadu Buhari’s stand by issuing contrary directives to their people, thereby escalating the tension in the land.   According to Webster’s dictionary, politics is “Possession of controlling influence” and “social relations involving intrigue to gain authority or power.” No wonder those interested in politics go all out to attain the commanding heights politics offers them.   Unfortunately, they detest any person and policy that obstructs their determination to attain any political position. A check on the trajectory to political eminence in Nigeria shows the same pattern being exploited during every election year. It has been observed that money has a huge and important role in every political setting. Oftentimes, members of political parties are settled with money or other patronage like gifts or contracts.  The same is observed around some unscrupulous security agents who turn the other way while poIling booths are whisked away or when poIling booths are attacked by paid political thugs; or how do we explain a situation where a politician amassed over a billion naira and stashed it in his house, worshipping the money as if it is God? As I write this column, the presidential election is five days away and it generally looks as if the country is gearing up for war. Chief of Defence Staff, Lieutenant General Lucky Irabor, has been spitting fire and announcing the readiness of the military for the successful conduct of the election and issuing warning to troublemakers to stay clear of election venues across the country.  In the same vein, the Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Alkali Usman Baba, disclosed that over 300,000 policemen have been  trained for all the elections and even the President had inaugurated some anti-riot police equipment days ago. According to a police statement, “The riot equipment commissioned include a total of 127 operational vehicles such as Toyota Hilux pickup vans, Zahab Classic pickup vans, Mikano Rich-6 pickup vans, anti-riot water cannons, armored personnel carriers, Toyota Land Cruiser Prado jeeps, Toyota Coaster buses, Toyota Hiace ambulances, Mikano trucks and crowd control barriers vehicles.  “Similarly, a large catchment of arms, ammunition, riot control agents such as tear gas, tasers, stun guns, pepper sprays, bulletproof vests, helmets and other personal protective equipment procured by the police will also be commissioned by the President and distributed to all police formations across the country.  “Mr. Alkali Baba expressed the eagerness of the Nigeria Police Force to ensure a safe and secure environment for law-abiding citizens to express their franchise at the 2023 polls.  He also warned all intending troublemakers to be wary as the police have been adequately trained and equipped for strategic deployment before, during and after the elections for the enforcement of extant laws regulating the conduct of elections in Nigeria and strengthening the general security and public safety across the length and breadth of Nigeria.” Also, the Chief of Naval Staff joined in informing Nigerians of the readiness of his men around the waterways and on land. As if this was not enough attention to aggravate tension among the people going to vote, the Civil Defence Corps further informed Nigerians of their readiness to collaborate with the police and  other security agencies like the Directorate of State Service (DSS) and the Fire Service, while the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has promised to checkmate vote-buying during the election.  In fact, never in the history of Nigerian elections had the federal government and all its security agencies prepared the way the Buhari administration has exhibited enough readiness, like the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).  Indeed the tension around the country  has allowed frivolous materials to circulate on the social media, furher aggravating the situation.  This is an appeal for peace and patience. Security File urges well-meaning Nigerians to avoid being hasty to spread bad news of purported violence or protests. It serves no one any good. Such could aggravate the situation on ground.  People should not play into the hands of evil politicians who do not mean well for the country. Our youths should be patriotic and reject any offer to distrupt elections in their community. All voters should conduct themselves peacefully while casting their votes. The election is mainly to select the best candidate and this process is not a do-or-die affair. (Concluded) ———————————— Congratulations Security File wishes to congratulate the spokesman of the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS), Mr. Tony Akuneme, who was recently promoted to the enviable rank of Comptroller of Immigration. He was promoted along with 62 other officers to higher ranks.  Security File had observed the tremendous achievement he had embarked upon sequel to his appointment as the public relations officer of Immigration, by bridging the strained relationship between  the organization and members of the public, especially Nigerians with international passport issues in the diaspora.  Comptroller Akuneme has attracted resounding applause and commendations to the organisation with his new and unique approach to public relations.  This new public relations approach should be recommended to other security agencies who are yet to understand and appreciate the important role of communication in the development of an organization on the one hand and between organizations and members of the public, thereby helping in cementing and forstering good relationships.