The Methodist Archbishop of Enugu Archdiocese, Most Rev. Christopher Edeh has urged Christians across the country to do everything possible to ensure the success of the forthcoming general elections in Nigeria. The archbishop made the call on Friday while delivering the State of the Nation Address at the 48th Annual Synod of the church holding at the St Luke’s Methodist Church, Ugwuaji in Enugu South Local Government Area of Enugu State. According to Edeh, the 2023 election is critical to the survival of Nigeria. We must play our role as a church to ensure its success. The cleric urged Christians to avoid vote buying, sale of the Permanent Voter Cards, and engaging in any activity capable of rigging the elections. Speaking on the theme of the synod, “Contend for the Faith”, taken from Jude verse 3, the spiritual father warned that evil men would arise even among them to distort the faith. “There are many preachers branding different kinds of gospel and many of us do not know the difference between the real faith and other faiths. “We must therefore make every effort to know what the faith is and be willing to contend for it and refuse to be carried away by human philosophies and fables. “We must contend for the faith that is delivered to us and we should use this election as part of the way to contend for this faith,” he said. The bishop urged members of the church to support its numerous projects for the growth of the church adding that the diocese had remained strong, spiritually vibrant, and very active in serving humanities. In her remarks, the Wife of the archbishop, Mrs Phoebe Edeh, urged parents especially mothers to caution their children and wards against engaging in electoral violence. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the synod is the highest decision making body of the church where its activities are reviewed and resolved ways of moving the church forward. The three-day synod was attended by clerics in the church, elders, knights and ladies as well as church members. (NAN)