From Uche Usim, Abuja Following incessant attacks on commercial banks’ facilities across the country as depositors vent their frustrations on naira scarcity, the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) and the Body of Banks CEOs have begun collaboration to address the lingering challenges. CIBN President, Dr Ken Opara, in a statement assured that banks would always remain open to serve the public as long as it is safe to do so. “The safety and security of staff of banks is of paramount importance. Hence, where there is security challenge, the managements of banks have been empowered to take proactive measures to close operations in such locations and inform the Central Bank of Nigeria. “Therefore, the safety concerns being expressed in various quarters are already being addressed. “Banks will continue to ensure that adequate security are in place to protect staff and customers whilst safeguarding the assets of the banks in contending with the current challenge”, Opara explained. While appealing to the public to remain calm and let the dove of peace fly as the currency redesign programme is being implemented, Opara noted that violence would hamper efforts to address all noted challenges. He said that the banking community was working together towards restoring normalcy. CIBN’s intervention is coming when the organised labour in the banking sector, under the aegis of the Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI) ordered members to stay off work in any state where bank branches are being attacked. The union said that the move became necessary to secure the lives of its members who have been at the receiving end since the ugly incident began. The President of the union, Olusoji Oluwole, in a statement issued on Friday, lamented that the union has been “inundated with reports of threats and attacks on lives and property of members and bank branches, and subsequently has been on the field to monitor and confirm the reports.” He said that the union has issued warnings and appeals to the government to provide security measures for the safety of lives and property of the members within and around the bank premises. “But regrettably, the attacks have continued without any form of security for the safety of our members, and the recent being the attack today, Friday, February 17 2023 on one bank branch at Epe, Lagos State”, the union’s president noted.