From Scholastica Onyeka, Makurdi Twelve day to the general elections, Nigerians have been urged to choose and vote wisely. Parish priest of St. Joseph Quasi Parish, Nyon, in Makurdi,  Rev Fr. Gabriel Tyoga, stated this in a homily, yesterday, warning that whatever choices Nigerians make in this forthcoming elections will have either positive or negative consequences in the next four or eight years. The cleric drew references from the scripture and said what was ahead of Nigerians was the option of  good and evil, and that it as important that the electorate make the right choice. He  admonished Nigerians, particularly Christians, not to be motivated by material things in their choices, but by God’s love, saying, ‘many people today have made and are making choices in various spheres of life that are not founded on God’s law.  “Their choices are motivated by other reasons than God’s love. No wonder, the only fruits they are reaping now or waiting to harvest is fire, death and evil. Let us take a look at the choice about the Nigerian general election 2023. We have yet another opportunity to make a choice about the people who will take up the leadership of this country. This will begin to materialise in two weeks with the presidential and national assemblies election. “Whatever choice we would want to make, let us kindly remember that every choice has a consequence. Voting some candidates is tantamount to subjecting the country to the evil of corruption and fire of insecurity, a bane to national development. If you have suffered and truly cares about the killings and hardship, if you worry about the educational system, the degrading health sector and economical instability, scarcity of fuel and recently the scarcity of Naira, let your conscience be your guide in making a choice in the forthcoming elections. If we are truly in need of life and good, the choice is ours. We have said protracted prayers, but God has given us the opportunity to be contributors to our answered prayer,” Tyoga said.