•As lawmaker calls for  gov’s arrest over ‘treasonable’ comments  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Noah Ebije, Kaduna  There is no letup in the battle of wit between Governor Nasir El-Rufai and President Muhammadu Buhari over the use of the old N500 and N1,000 notes, as the Kaduna helmsman has directed Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) in the state not to reject old naira notes. Governor El-Rufai had along with governors of Kogi and Zamfara states dragged the Buhari-led Federal Government to the Supreme Court to override the February 15 deadline given by the CBN for the return of the old naira notes in the N200, N500 and N1,000 denominations. A few days after the apex court issued an ex party order in favour of the governors, President Buhari, in a broadcast ordered the recirculation of the N200 notes. But hours later, the governor, in a statewide broadcast, countered Buhari as he urged Kaduna residents to continue to use “phased out’ N500 and N1,000 old notes. Again, the governor, in a statement by his media aide, Muyiwa Adekeye, yesterday, said old and new naira notes should keep circulating in the state. He argued that the directive was in line with the subsisting order of the Supreme Court on the notes. “In line with the subsisting order of the Supreme Court, the Kaduna State Government has directed its Ministries, Departments and Agencies to ensure that their collection agents continue to accept payments made in all denominations of the naira, old and new. “The laws of Kaduna State do not allow personnel of government agencies to be involved in cash collection of revenues. “The collection agents authorised by state government agencies do offer citizens a route for cash payment, and are expected to comply with the subsisting court order.” Similarly, the state government admonished residents not to embark on protests as it could lead to breakdown of law and order. It issues the warning against the backdrop of violence in some states owing to the scarcity of the naira. Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan said the state government has received credible intelligence reports of plans by various groups to deliberately disrupt public peace, by organising street protests.  He warned the public that security agencies have been directed to nip in the bud all threats to peace and tranquility in the state. Meanwhile, member representing Kaduna North Federal constituency, Malam Samaila Suleiman has called for the arrest of Governor El-Rufai over his recent call on  people of Kaduna State to continue trading with the old N1, 000 and  N500 notes, despite the Federal Government pronouncement that the notes were no longer legal tenders. In a statement, yesterday, Suleiman said El-Rufai’s counter order to President Buhari on the cessation of the old N1,000 and N500 as legal tenders as amounted to treasonable offence.  He said because the governor was still enjoying immunity under the law, security agencies should pick him up on May 29 after handing over to his successor. “The security agencies are urged to be on high alert and move in to defend and protect our democracy, the sanctity and integrity of the Nigerian state as one indivisible and indissoluble entity by arresting and prosecuting Nasir el-Rufai for his treasonable conduct which constitutes serious threat not only to democracy but the entire entity called the federal Republic of Nigeria.”