Leicester City head coach Brendan Rodgers has expressed his delight that Nigerian forward Kelechi Iheanacho is attracting praise for his excellent performances in recent weeks. Brendan Rodgers relegated Iheanacho to his third-choice striker behind Jamie Vardy and Patson Daka during the first half of the season. But Leicester struggled to put positive results together, with the Foxes winning only five Premier League matches between August and January. However, Rodgers has tinkered with his starting lineup in recent times, preferring to start Iheanacho alongside Harvey Barnes and new signing Brazil’s Tete. Iheanacho has repaid the former Liverpool manager with a couple of brilliant displays. The Super Eagles striker scored one and provided two assists to inspire Leicester to a 4-2 win at Aston Villa on February 4 – the Foxes’ first victory of the year 2023. Last weekend, Iheanacho added another goal and assist as Leicester crushed Tottenham 4-1 at the King Power Stadium in easily the club’s most impressive triumph of the season. Rodgers is pleased to see Iheanacho deliver the goods regularly and become a terror for Premier League defenders. What has been said? “He’s been outstanding,” Brendan Rodgers said, as per Leicester Mercury. “He’s a player that’s been really unfortunate. Jamie Vardy is a legend of the Premier League and this club and since I came in here, he’s been sort of the focal point really of the team. But of course, time moves on and it’s about managing Jamie now. “Obviously, for Kels with the players now that we have in, it really suits his game, how he links the game and so on. He’s at a prime age, so this can be his moment. He just needs to keep the level, the consistency and keep working hard. I’m delighted for him. “He’s a threat, and he’s horrible to play against if you’re a centre-half because he’s so strong. He’s done great.” Iheanacho has five goals in all competitions this term, netting three in the Premier League and another two in the FA Cup.