From Lateef Dada, Osogbo The leadership of the Osun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has tasked the members and supporters of the party in the state to observe a three-day fasting and prayer to seek the favour of God for the smooth conduct of the elections. The Acting State Chairman of the party, Sooko Tajudeen Lawal, gave the directive in a statement issued by the party’s Director of Media and Information, Chief Kola Olabisi, in Osogbo, the state capital on Tuesday. Lawal hinted that his party does not joke with the potency of fasting and prayer as no logjam cannot be remedied by the All-knowing God by communicating with Him through fasting and prayer. He directed that the fasting and prayer session should be held between Wednesday and Friday which is the eve of the conduct of the presidential and national assembly elections. He stated that the prayer point of the APC members and supporters should be that God Almighty should finish His work which He had started a long time ago on the presidential candidate of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and all the party’s national and state assemblies’ candidates. Lawal enjoined the APC members to remember in their supplications to God to pray for crisis-free elections and the subsequent victory of all the party’s candidates. He reminded members and supporters of his party that their permanent voter’s cards should be within reach by now to enable them to partake actively in the elections. He pleaded with them to observe all the directives of the umpire of the elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), to the letter to avoid voiding and cancellation of their votes. Lawal told the APC members and supporters to resist any act of provocation by the enemies of democracy which could lead to the promotion of crisis before, during, and after the elections. He prayed to God Almighty that the party would not have any reason to lose any Osun citizens, particularly the members and supporters of APC during the voting exercises.