• Lagos lists alternative routes to stadium for APC candidates final rally Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Noah Ebije, Kaduna  Nobel laureate, Wole Soyinka, has disowned the viral social media post which claimed he endorsed Bola Tinubu, presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC).  The social media post also claimed the playwright called former President Olusegun Obasanjo a liar and Atiku Abubakar, the former vice-president, a corrupt politician. “Quote me anywhere, Nigerians don’t need the likes of Atiku and Obasanjo to lead them again. We have tasted the two: Atiku is corrupt and Obasanjo is a liar. Both of them are greedy and self-centered,” the social media post read in part. “Anybody, any cabal, any Viju milk activist, attempting to humiliate Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu must have me to contend with. An average PDP man is angry with Asiwaju because he brought them to their knees.” But in a statement, yesterday, Soyinka said he never made the comments at any time. “Professor Soyinka did NOT at any time or on any occasion issue such a statement. It is simply the work of peddlers of fake news and falsehood, who profit from misinformation to gain political advantages,” the playwright said. “The media and members of the public are advised to ignore the message or any other political message that addresses or targets any political party or political actor.” Meanwhile, the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) has suggested three alternative routes to the Teslim Balogun stadium in Surulere for the final rally of the All Progressives Congress (APC) scheduled for tomorrow. In a statement, yesterday, Bolaji Oreagba, LASTMA’s general manager, said the alternative routes were suggested as there would be a procession of Bola Tinubu, APC presidential candidate, and his supporters from the local airport to the stadium. “Consequent upon the procession of APC Presidential Candidate and his Party Stalwarts, Party Faithful, and Supporters from the Local Airport to Stadium, it is hereby advisable for all party faithful and supporters attending the rally to make use of the following alternative routes to the venue,” Oreagba said. “Third Mainland Bridge – Adeniji Adele Interchange – Carter Bridge (Idumota Bridge) – Ijora Olopa by LAWMA Headquarters – Eko Bridge – Alaka -stadium. “From Agege use; Jibowu Herbert – Macaulay Way – AdekunleThird Mainland Bridge – Adeniji Adele Interchange – Carter Bridge (Idumota Bridge) – Ijora Olopa by LAWMA Headquarters – Eko Bridge – Alaka – stadium. “From Apapa-Oshodi expressway (Itire, Okota, Amuwo Odofin, and Lagos-Badagry) use Orile – Iganmu Bridge – Costain – Iponri – Alaka – stadium. “Designated car parks at the stadium are available to promote orderliness and free flow of traffic (human and vehicular traffic) in and around the venue.”