From Okwe Obi, Abuja  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN), has expressed sadness over the lingering fuel and cash scarcities across the country. To that effect, NYCN President, Sukubo Sara-Igbe, at a press briefing yesterday in Abuja, said Nigerian youths would embark on a nationwide protest to register their displeasure. Sara-Igbe said part of their demands would be the removal of the Central Bank of Nigeria Governor, Dr. Godwin Emefiele, Minister of State for Petroleum Timipre Slyva, and the  Group CEO of Nigerian National Petroleum Company  Limited (NNPC), Mele Kyari. He said: “It is only the unpatriotic persons that will negate the unalloyed zeal to reposition the economy of Nigeria and to lift our beloved nation from economic quagmire.  “The unflinching effects of citizens are quite glaring and the entire Youth Constituency is appreciative of this. “Indeed, the deliberate efforts so that the economy of our dear nation stabilizes, has gainfully engaged youth and unemployment thereby demonstrating the raison d’etre for the existence of the State. “Fellow Nigerians, no matter how good a car can be, when the driver is inexperienced and lacks the technical known-how, the car will inevitably head to doom.  “The same is applicable to our beloved country Nigeria and our economy. The drivers of the economy of this highly rich and blessed nation have showcased their lack of technical know-how in handling the economy and our beloved nation is regrettably heading to an economic doom, if nothing is urgently done. “It is disheartening to note that the key persons, on whom Nigerians saddled the responsibility of overseeing the economy of our dear nation, are grossly relegating the earnest and sincere efforts to the background.  “The status quo is that Nigeria, though an oil economy has no revenue from oil; NNPC rather than being a cash cow is now a money; and consequently the state which should exist for the development is now a rentier state for the making of few person billionaires.  “All of these is all thanks to the leakages form state own enterprise, monstrous oil subsidy market regime and dereliction of duties of the trio of Dr. Godwin Emefiele, H.E Chief Timipre Sylva and Alhaji Mele Kyari. Timipere Sylva demonstrated incompetence in the handing the economy of this great nation. “Permit me to pose some few pertinent questions to buttress our current predicament: How do we explain the dwindling oil revenue earning fro m 60 billion dollars in 2011 to 2.9 billion dollars in 2022?  “Who should be blame for why it is bad news for Nigeria while other oil economy is good news during this period of high oil prices and buoyant oil market?  “How do we defend the astronomical increase in the consumption rate 66million liters per day in 2020 alongside determining data?  “Why are the drivers of the economy complacent at the current cost of debt servicing to wit revenue being 2.9 billion dollars while servicing rate is 1.9 billion dollars? “Fellow Nigerian Youth and People, do we want to go the current plight of countries like Mali, Bukina Faso and other sub-Sahara state? God Forbid! These drivers of the economy are putting us in this fast lane.  “The Nigerian Youth being the direct victims of this economic quagmire points to this director.  “Many businesses have folded up and may investors have left Nigeria sequel to the incessant depreciation of naira and erratic exchange rates.  “In the light of the above, Ladies and Gentlemen and the interest and betterment of this nation, the entire Youth Constituency humbly requests for the immediate sack of the duo – the CBN governor this nation into financial doom and will orchestrate more Youth restiveness, agitations and crimes. Fellow citizens, this a clarion call of the entire Nigerian Youth Constituency.” “In support of this earnest clarion call, over 41,000 Nigerian Youth, from the 774 Local Government Areas and 36 states across the nation including FCT, have appended their signatures to this protest. “In the light of the above and before we convey our plea, permit us, state that the Nigerian Apex Youth Constituency is greatly pained and to assuage our pains we seek all citizens support to protest nationwide against the Central Bank of Nigeria Governor, Dr. Godwin Emefiele, Minister of State for Petroleum Timipre Slyva, and the  Group CEO of Nigerian National Petroleum Company  Limited (NNPC), Mele and pour out the burden of pains and hardship borne from the Ministry of Petroleum, GMD of NNPC and the CBN Governor for their betrayal and disservice to the Nation from 10th February, 2023 to 24th February, 2023.”