From Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha Following the achievements and legislative performance of the Senator representing Anambra North senatorial district, Stella Adaeze Oduah the people of the seven local government areas that make up the zone have thrown their support for the reelection of the lawmaker to the senate.  The constituents of the zone who spoke on the heels of series of thousands of empowerments sponsored by the Senator, in different communities in Anambra North, said that she is the only one they need for senate for the zone come February 25, 2023. The Director of Sales and Marketing of Senator Oduah campaign organization Dr. Noel Udeoji said that the people of the seven local government areas of the zone have equitably benefited from the benevolence and magnanimous gesture of the lawmaker. He said that the recent solidarity road walk and march across the seven council areas of the zone showed senator Oduah’s wide support and acceptance as hundreds of thousands trooped out en masse to join the unannounced raid show in support of her reelection to the senate.  “We cannot begin to compile the thousands of testaments from the people of Anambra North LGA as it concerns the  Senator. If we are to count, it would exceed millions of empowerments, roads rehabilitation, free medical outreaches, scholarships, skills acquisition training, ego mbido afia initiatives, the Ome ogo giveaways money etc, the list is endless. “The distinguished senator has assured Ndi Anambra North that this senatorial impact will last throughout her administration as the Senator representing Anambra North, and Anambra North has assured Sen. Stella Oduah through the solidarity walks across the zone that come February 25, 2023, they will vote her in to continually represents them because one good term deserve more good terms” Udeoji stated. The Zonal Director General of the campaign organization Hon. Eucharia Azodo said that she has not ‘slept’ since the mega endless empowerment programmes started, saying that she has been on her toes to ensure that all the seven LGAs in the zone benefited without any bias or any discrimination or favourtism. “This is because Senator Oduah  takes each week to put a smile on their faces so it is either they are on an empowerment programmes or a training programme or in their businesses or they are walking in solidarity for senator Oduah.  “Just last week over 50 people were empowered including Huge Man of Sapientia FM already people are empowered every weekend on the Friday radio Sapientia program that is sponsored by Sen. Stella Oduah since mid 2022. It is the last weekend in January and Anambra North thinks the days should pause at the empowerment field so that the grassroot feels the senatorial impact of Sen Oduah.  “The past few weeks have been nothing short of blessings to over 2,000 constituents who have benefitted massively from the Senator Oduah empowerments scheme. Over 300 Tricycles, 800 Motorcycles, 200 shuttle buses, thousands of grinding machines, make up boxes and cash awards were given to constituents courtesy of people’s senator” Azodo said. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. To another constituent Chief Innocent Nwatah, “Indeed, Sen Oduah has set standards that successive representatives may find too difficult to break. She did not just empower the downtrodden but she gave them hope. She gave them a reason to live. Now, an average Anambra North constituent knows where the next meal will come from.  “The good people of Anambra North pledged their unalloyed Support to Senator Stella Oduah for the good work she is doing in Anambra North, She has done marvelously well in the past seven years in all sectors of life, She brought government closer to the grassroot by touching the lives of the less privilege through her skill aquisition and emperworment programme. “Senator Stella Oduah constructed numerous roads in different part of Anambra North, In her quest to promote education she built classroom blocks virtually in all the primary Schools in Anambra North. “The lawmaker has done laudable and verifiable projects in Anambra North since she was elected, and the good people of Anambra North have vowed to deliver her come February 25, 2023 to continue her good works since reward for good work is more work” Nwatah stated.