By Gabriel Dike Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. In compliance with the Federal Government directive, tertiary institutions and schools nationwide have shut down academic activities for the 2023 general elections. The decision is to allow students exercise their franchise on Saturday, February 25 and Saturday, March 11 for the governorship poll. The Federal Government through the National Universities Commission (NUC), National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) and National Commission for Colleges of Education (NCCE) had asked heads of institutions to shut down because of security reason.  Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, had directed universities, inter university centres, polytechnics and colleges of education to shut down and academic activities suspended between February 22 and March 14. Reports nationwide indicated full compliance with the ministerial directive by public and private universities, polytechnics and colleges of education as well as primary and secondary schools. Babcock University, Ilishan-Remo, Ogun State, compiled with the directive and suspended academic from Wednesday, February 22nd. Students were advised to vacate their halls of residence same day. Also, in line with the order, the Senate of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Akoka, revised the academic calendar for second semester 2021/2022 session. UNILAG Senate declared February 23 to 27 and also March 9 to 13 lecture free and students asked to vacate the hostels.  Daily Sun gathered that federal universities and polytechnics in the South East, North East, North West and some in South West complied with the ministerial directive. In Lagos, the state-owned tertiary institutions did not comply with the directive, rather they Senate fixed different dates to suspend academic activities instead of the stipulated dates. As at yesterday, the Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo, Lagos State University of Science and Technology (LASUSTECH), Ikorodu and Lagos State University of Education (LASUED), Ijanikin were still in session contrary to the directive to shut down, yesterday. LASU Senate approved students to vacate campus today and resumed Tuesday, February 28 for the presidential election. While for the gubernatorial poll, the Senate directed students to vacate campus on March 9. At LASU, a meeting between the university management and the students’ union to discuss the shut down ended in a deadlock. Daily Sun gathered that the students union insisted on the break based on the ministerial directive but the Vice-Chancellor, Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello, rejected their position and was alleged to have walked out on the students. An unsigned statement purported from the Speaker by one honourable Nifemi, said “after the Senate meeting that lasted for over an hour with arguments from the student leaders and the Senate, the vice-chancellor still stood her grounds to disallow the extension of holidays as directed by the federal government for varsities. “I really commend the effort of the Students Union, President, Comrade Adeoye Adelakun for standing his ground to fight for the students rather than support the management. I also commend the effort of the President, Faculty of Law, Speaker, Faculty of Education and others, who stood their ground as the mouth piece of the students giving reasons why this long holiday is very essential. “Although the VC walked out but ordered that there will be another Senate meeting on Thursday regarding the meeting held today and that there are provisions for food for LASUITIES, who will be on campus during the forth coming general elections. The VC of LASU, Prof. Olatunji-Bello did not respond to questions sent to her on the students allegations.