From Molly Kilete, Abuja The Inspector General of Police(IGP), Usman Baba, has approved the appointment of new police commissioners for  Adamawa,  Ebonyi, Lagos, Taraba and Ogun States.The IGP, has also  approved the appointment of Deputy Inspectors General of Police(DIGs),  and Assistant Inspectors-General of Police (AIGs) to Departments, Commands, and Formations.The posting according to the force public relations officer Olumiyiwa Adejobi, is with immediate effect.Under the new arrangement, Danmallam Mohammed, has been redeployed to the Department of Finance and Administration while  AIG Hafiz M. Inuwa, is now the DIG Department of Training and Development. Others are DIG Department of Research and Planning – AIG Aji A. Janga, DIG Department of Operations – AIG Adeleke A. Bode. AIG Habu Sani Ahmadu has been posted as Force Secretary while AIG Shuaya’u Lafia Abdulyari assumes office as the AIG in charge of the Force Intelligence Bureau, Force Headquarters, Abuja.Force public relations officer Olumiyiwa Adejobi, in a statement, said “the following Senior Police Officers have been posted to also take up the duties and responsibilities of the Assistant Inspectors-General of Police in charge of Zonal Police Commands as indicated against their names –i.      AIG Police Mobile Force                 –       CP Matthew Akinyosola, mniii.     AIG Zone 6 Calabar              –       CP Jonathan Towuru, mniiii.    AIG Zone 2 Lagos                        –       CP Sylvester A. Alabi, fdciv.     AIG Zone 11 Osogbo              –       CP Akande Sikiru Kayodev.      AIG Zone 17 Akure               –       CP Abimbola Adebola ShokoyaIn line with the IGP’s mandate and strategies to strengthen the operational structures of state commands, the Police Boss has equally ordered the provisional posting of the following Commissioners of Police to Commands indicated below pending the approval of the Police Service Commission;i.      CP Adamawa State                –       CP Adebola A. Hamzat, fdcii.     CP Ogun State                   –       CP Emeka Frank Mba, mniiii.    CP Taraba State                 –       CP Suleiman A. Yusuf, mniiv.     CP Lagos State                  –       CP Idowu Owohunwav.      CP Ebonyi State                 –       CP Faleye E.S. Olaleye The IGP has therefore charged the newly posted officers to hit the ground running to ensure the mission, vision, and policy statements of his administration are effectively complied with in the areas of crime-fighting, public cooperation, and safety. He also called for support and cooperation from members of the public to enable the newly posted senior officers to perform optimally on their mandate.