From Sylvanus Viashima, Jalingo Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Ahead of Saturday’s Presidential election across the country, the North East Zonal Director, Contact mobilization and grassroots engagement for the Labour Party Mr Jinadu Garvey Yawe has said that Saturday’s election presents Nigerians with the option to either vote to continue with the hard times that Nigerians are currently experiencing and the general bad governance of the last two decades or a new Nigeria that guarantees a better life for all Nigerians led by Dr Peter Obi. Yawe who disclosed this at a meeting of the Labour Party presidential campaign council and like minds for peter Obi/Datti in Jalingo on Wednesday in preparation for Saturday’s election said that irrespective of speculations from several quarters, the Northeast will vote overwhelmingly for Peter Obi because of his antecedents and shown commitment to the zone. He noted that the North East zone has witnessed the presence of the presidential candidate of the LP more than any other political party and is poised to give Obi and the party an overwhelming victory at the polls contrary to some cheap propaganda peddled by some persons that the party is only a social media party “Ladies and Gentlemen, we the voters of North Eastern Zone of Nigeria, have verified the records and antecedents of Mr Peter Obi and Alhaji Yusuf Datti- Ahmed, and like all well-meaning Nigerians, we are fully convinced by their antecedents that they remain the best team that will take the required decisions and actions, that will salvage the situation we are faced with today. Our Zone is facing the worst security situation in this country. In fact, every Nigerian is living in fear of bandits, insurgents and agitators. We are dying in droves. Our situation is very dire. “We need visionary leadership, a man that will be fair and firm, a man that understands the world economy, a man that understands the principle of saving, a man that believes in production and not stealing. Among all the presidential candidates today, that man is no other person but Mr Peter Obi and we shall vote for him wholeheartedly on 25th February 2023 to serve as President of the Federal Republic Of Nigeria. “Fellow Northerners, a few days from now, we will be confronted at the polling units with clear options to either choose the present practices that have led to the severe poverty and unfortunate death of many of our relatives. Or we shall choose leaders with proven capabilities, compassion and characteristics we trust. “Recently, a few individuals in Bauchi made some self-serving comments that will at best be described as seeking cheap popularity and relevance. This is the same politics of poverty and dishonesty which we are determined to dump on Saturday 25th February 2023 by voting Mr Peter Obi and Yusuf Datti-Ahmed as President and Vic President of Nigeria respectively “Today, we understand the apprehension that faces the selfish opposition parties/individuals following the widespread acceptance of the principles of Compassion in Governance initiated by the Labour Party Candidate Mr Peter Obi. Mr Peter Obi remains the only Presidential Candidate today that has visited not just State capitals where other Presidential Candidates gather in one place wearing costumes to dance on the graves of our lost ones, but even ungoverned and traumatized areas of the North-East, even during the floods. He has visited Numan, Mubi and Yola in Adamawa State. In Taraba State, Mr Peter Obi visited Wukari and Jalingo and we had made plans to receive him in Takum and Gembu but the bad weather experienced in recent times would not allow that. Mind you that he is the only frontline presidential candidate to visit Taraba state at all. “Mr Peter Obi has also visited Biu and other areas in the bandit-controlled Southern parts of Borno State, including Maiduguri. He was also in Kaltongo in Gombe State and Tafawa Balewa in Bauchi State and other major towns and cities in the North East. It is on record that in all these locations, our Candidate Mr Peter Obi and his Vice, Mr Yusuf Datti-Ahmed were well received by many of our enthusiastic citizens from all spheres of life, cutting across all religions, ethnic groups and tribes”. Yawe urged party members to conduct themselves with utmost decorum and decency and to avoid any provocation that could lead to the disruption of the process. He specifically asked party members to avoid any situation where they may be found with INEC staff or election materials as INEC has made adequate arrangements for the movement of personnel and materials.