•  CPs read riot acts to miscreants From Godwin Tsa, Abuja, Lateef Dada, Osogbo, Scholastica Onyeka Makurdi and Okey Sampson, Umuahia Security has been beefed up in the headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory as sensitive materials arrive ahead of Saturday’s elections. Over 93 million registered voters would head to the polls for the presidential and National Assembly elections on February 25 while governorship and state assembly elections would hold on March 11. Visits at the various offices of the commission, yesterday, showed heavy presence of security operatives in and around the offices. Roads leading to the INEC offices were shut to traffic with roadblocks making motorists to explore alternative routes. Armed security personnel including operatives of  the Police, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and others were spotted at strategic locations at the gates and major roads leading to the commission’s offices. Meanwhile, Commissioners of Police, Benue State Command, Wale Abass and his Abia State counterpart,  Mustapha Bala, have declared the commands readiness for the general elections. CP Abass stated that the command has engaged in series of pre-election workshops, election security management trainings, stakeholder engagements and combat drills to ensure that his men are prepared for the task ahead. He said as lead security agency on internal security, the command, under his watch has been able to liaise with other security agencies to assess strength, challenges and threats, and plan towards allocating available resources/assets to successfully manage the electoral process in the state.  On his part,  Bala warned those planning to perpetuate violence to have a rethink or be ready to face the consequences of their actions. CP Bala who gave the warning at the Police Officer’s Mess in Umuahia, said the Abia State Command of the Police and other sister security agencies have mapped out measures to ensure a hitch-free elections. He charged politicians and party agents to avoid acts capable of causing chaos within and outside the polling units, or other relevant centres. However, the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State, Dr. Abdul-Azeez Adediran, has appealed to security agencies to step up security. He told a news conference that increased security was necessary for voters to choose leaders of their choices. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “Let us have an atmosphere where people can come out and exercise their franchise. There is no point in anybody stocking up arms; let the people decide.” Adediran commended the Inspector General of Police, Mr Usman Baba, for boosting the courage of voters with some actions after repeated attacks on PDP campaign trains. He also hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for assuring security at the polls. Show of force in Anambra, sensitive materials arrive Enugu In Anambra State, Tochukwu Ikenga, spokesman confirmed readiness of security operatives. According to him, the joint security operatives have embarked on “Show of force” in different locations across the state. Ikenga also said there had been improved personnel deployment and operational positioning of personnel across the state. He said the patrol is led by the Commissioner of Police, Mr Echeng Echeng, has the Military, Navy, Department of State Service, the Nigeria Civil Defence Corps, Federal Road Safety, Immigration Service and other sister agencies in the convoy. In Enugu State, Mr. Rex Achumie, head of department, Voter Education and Publicity (VEP) confirmed arrival of materials. “INEC top officials have gone to inspect sensitive materials received at the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Enugu branch. Just this morning, we went to CBN, Enugu branch, to confirm receipt of sensitive materials, especially the election result sheets. “However, INEC will be distributing the result sheets in full glare of heads of security agencies, political parties, media, observers and other stakeholders on Thursday from the CBN.” Materials received included 1,088 cartons containing the Bi-Modal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) machine. Each of the cartons has four BVAS machines, totalling 4,352. The BVAS machines would be deployed to the 4,145 polling units across 260 Registration Area Centres and 17 council areas. Police to deploy 16,000 in Ondo, C’River No fewer than 7,000 personnel would be deployed  across Ondo State. At a joint news conference at the Police Officers Mess in Akure, Commissioner of Police, Oyeyemi Oyediran, said the deployment was part of how security agencies would ensure the election is free, fair, transparent and credible in the state. Brigadier Commander of 32 Artillery Brigade, Immigration, INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), NSCDC, FRSC, DSS, Customs, among others, were present at the news conference. The CP said all heads of security agencies had synergiss for the betterment of the forthcoming election. He called on the public to shun any form of thuggery or vices during and after the election or face the wrath of the law.  Olufunmilayo Bosede, Comptroller of Immigration in Ondo State, said the command had recovered three voter’s card and one national identity card from some non-Nigerians. Also, the Police Command in Cross River said  it would  deploy  9,000  personnel across the three senatorial districts. Spokesperson of the command, Irene Ugbo, said they would be under the direct supervision of six Commissioners of Police. She said the command was ready for effective coverage of the 3,281 polling units in the state. “We are going to have three officers manning each of the polling units. They will not carry arms but only baton; the armed ones will stay close in case of any eventuality,” she said. 15,000 NSCDC for Osun, Ekiti, Ondo This is as Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has concluded arrangements to  deploy 15,000 personnel to Osun, Ekiti and Ondo states. Mr. Adeyinka Ayinla, assistant commandant in-charge of “Zone J”, comprising  the three states, disclosed  this at an awareness  programme organised for senior officers of the corps in Osogbo. He said the NSCDC in collaboration with other security agencies would deal decisively with any person or group that may want to undermine the credibility of the elections. “The protection of human lives,  electoral materials, officials and preservation of lawful and orderly processes are necessary for free and fair election, hence this sensitisation programme Involvement of the security agencies in the electoral process can help ensure the security of the electoral  processes,” he said. Osun APC declares 3-day fasting  The leadership of the Osun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has tasked members and supporters to observe a three-day fasting and prayer to seek the favour of God.  Acting State Chairman of the party, Sooko Tajudeen Lawal, gave the directive in a statement issued by the party’s Director of Media and Information, Chief Kola Olabisi, in Osogbo. Lawal said his party does not joke with the potency of fasting and prayer as no logjam cannot be remedied by God. He directed that the fasting and prayer session should be held between today and Friday, eve of the conduct of the presidential and national assembly elections. Lawal enjoined APC members to remember in their supplications to God to pray for crisis-free elections and the subsequent victory of all the party’s candidates. He reminded members and supporters of his party that their permanent voter’s cards should be within reach by now to enable them to partake actively in the elections. INEC to deploy 17,562 adhoc personnel in Ondo State  At least, 17,572 ad-hoc personnel would be deployed in Ondo State. Mr. Oyekola Oyelami, acting Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) made the disclosure at a joint news conference with security agencies at Police Officers Mess, Akure. Oyelami, who said the commission had 3,933 polling units across the 18 local covernment Area, said that over 1.7 million people have collected their PVCs while over 303,000 had not. On the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS), he explained that the commission tested the BVAS machines nationwide on February 4 where efficiency and effectiveness were recorded. Commissioner of Police, Brigade Commander of 32 Artillery Brigade, Immigration, NSCDC, FRSC, DSS, Customs, among others, were present at the news conference.  REC denies attack on INEC office in Kogi Meanwhile, Dr. Hale Longpet, Kogi Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) dismissed reports of attack on INEC office in Okehi Local Government Area of the state. Longpet made the denial during a news conference on preparedness of INEC for the forthcoming general elections in Lokoja. “It’s not true that our office in Okehi LGA was blasted on Monday evening. We understood there was a blast at council’s Secretariat where we also have our office but the office was not affected in anyway. “We want the world to know that none of INEC facilities in Kogi is under any form of attack as we are very ready for the 2023 general elections starting on Saturday, ” he said. The REC described as “mischievous” some reports insinuating that the commission’s facility had been bombed and advised such rumour mongers to stop such nefarious act.