From Gyang Bere, Jos Plateau State Labour Party Governorship candidate, Dr. Patrick Dakum has expressed strong commitment to lead Plateau out of the current hardship, poverty and run an all inclusive governance if elected into office. He noted that his government will empower women, youths and people with disability and make them economically self reliance to fight the poverty index in the state. Dakum disclosed this during a media engagement with members of the Correspondents’ Chapel, NUJ, Plateau State Council where he explained how he will also fight insecurity that has polarized the state for over two decades. “The pillers in which the Labour Party is founded is social justice. Social Justice demands that you provide inclusiveness to everybody and that is what our party stands for. Inclusiveness of the vulnerable groups because they are the indicators of measuring whether a community is develop or not. “When I talk of inclusiveness, I am talking about young people, women, people living with disabilities and the elderly. I will ensure that they are empowered to become self reliance.” He explained that the Presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Mr. Peter Obi is prepared to decentralize the security architecture in the country and give room for community policing, saying he would key into the agenda to protect Plateau people using vigilante groups and hunters association in the state. “We will strengthen the vigilante groups, hunters association and the traditional institutions in the fight against insecurity. None of these are on the budget, we will use security vote to strengthen the system while we equip other Nigeria security forces.” He explained that the Labour Party in Plateau has presented competent and credible Governorship Candidate with an experienced and trusted running mate, Edward Pwajok  SAN, who is the only life bencher on the Plateau, and said he will complement the desire of the party to bring development in the state. “The Labour Party has provided a team that would provide leadership from day one. This is because one of the bent of our problem is not lack of plan, we have slots of plans inherited from the Millennium Development Goal and now we need a strong leadership team that will be bold to take decisions that will be compassionate to the people. “If you are to be asking questions today in Nigeria from community to community that are you happy with the way things are going as far as governance is concerned, the overwhelming result will be that we are not happy.  “If we are not happy, why will we continue on the party that things are not working. I believe that in understanding the times that we are is what has given raise to Labour Party. Peter Obi has come not only on the platform of Labour Party but Obedient Movement.”  He noted that the movement of the party both at the Federal and at the state level goes beyond the membership of the party and made up of families that are dissatisfied with the unfolding events in the country.