W Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The song Koleyemi tends to have a little bit of controversy to it. While the song retains a catchy feel, you cannot miss the fact that it is passing a very strong message about friends becoming enemies in an instant. It’s a scary reality and one can’t help but wonder why this cannot be far from the truth. Some realities make us happy, and some make us moody. Losing a good friend is certainly not a thought we would want to entertain and so you might want to also wonder what must’ve been going throughBigbabyc’s head during the process of writing, arranging, and recording this song.Here is what Bigbabyc had to say about this in a recent interview; The song Koleyemi is based on true and personal experiences and more than one occasion.The song is basically about bad friends and me wondering why it’s so hard for friends to stay friends without any type of conflicts or backstabbing…In my case I have been hurt by people I call friends, backstabbed and basically taken advantage of, I’ve even been scammed off of millions by my so-called friendOnce people know you are soft and genuine, they take advantage of you. Which in turn made me so closed off that I can’t even trust people or be nice to people cus I’m scared they might hurt me. But we move!Due to the fact that this song was inspired by a terrible experience coming from a close ally, Bigbabyc is saying we should not be afraid to cut people off and on why she had developed this mentality, she had this to say; Betrayal is inevitable, be wise and always watch your circle. Cut off people who do not serve any purpose in your life. You don’t need the baggage., and lastly, Don’t let that experience turn you into a monster. Good people still exist.We can now understand that the song is not in any way influencing people to start living like loners, it is simply asking listeners to be careful of the company they keep. What we do know is that Koleyemi is here to stay and it will constantly remind us about the horrors of friendship and also lead us to great relationships too. The song is a blessing in disguise. Full details on the interview on Glamcode Media revealed the painstaking process of writing the song and the pathways through memory lane. The fact that this song is timeless cannot be overemphasized.