…As rival party’s members attack Obi-dients Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. • Lagos APC condemns attack, washes hand off incident By Christopher Oji One person was feared killed yesterday with many others injured when supporters of the presidential candidate of Labour Party, Mr Peter Obi, who were going for a rally organised for him at the Tafawa Belowa Square, Lagos were attacked by hoodlums, suspected to be members of an opposition party. The police in Lagos, however, confirmed that only four persons were injured, adding that the force has stepped up investigation into the attack, saying that no arrest has been made. According to an eyewitness, Obieze Yadi, “we were attacked at Illasan area. We were on our way to TBS for Labour Party rally for our leader, Mr Peter Obi, some of us were putting on Labour Party insignia, while some people like us hid ours in our bags because we have been threatened by a particular party supporters. But the people who attacked us knew the tricks we played by hiding our uniforms in our bags, so they ordered us to surrender our bags for a search and we resisted them. “They now started attacking us. They were armed with dangerous weapons. They beat some of us to stupor.” Another eyewitness, John Orji, allleged that the attackers were members of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), claiming that one person died during the attack. He said: “Labour Party’s campaign train was in Lagos for its mega rally which was held at the Tafawa Balewa Square, TBS, scores of urchins suspected to be working for APC attacked members of the Obi-dient Movement, who were on their way to the venue of the rally with guns and cutlasses. A victim whose identity was unknown died while being conveyed to the hospital”. However,Jakande Ward Chairman of Labour Party  who reported the attack on his party members at Ilasan Division, said many of their members sustained matcher injuries during  the attack . The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, SP  Benjamin Hundeyin, who confirmed the incident, said that four persons were injured in the attack. Hundeyin said that the injured persons have since been given medical attention, adding that the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Ilasan Police Division has commenced preliminary investigations, while detectives from the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) have been directed to fully take over the investigations. “The injured and other witnesses are assisting the police with relevant information that would aid the apprehension and prosecution of the attackers. “This attack is reprehensible! It is verifiable that the Command had stationed, since yesterday, patrol vehicles and officers at the Tafawa Balewa Square venue of today’s rally. We had already secured the venue to prevent any breakdown of law and order. “The regrettable attack happened at about 15 km away from the rally venue. As earlier stated, the SCID will take over investigations towards apprehending and prosecuting the attackers,” he said. Meanwhile, the state chapter of All Progressive Congress (APC) has denied involvement in the attack on the LP motorcade during yesterday’s LP rally in Lagos. It, therefore, called on the security agencies to wade into the matter. Spokesperson of APC, Seye Oladejo, said that the allegation that the APC was responsible for the attack was not substantiated. According to him, the APC’s position has always been for the security agencies to do their job, and bring those found culpable in any attack to book. Oladejo noted that the APC does not see Labour Party as a rival that poses any threat to its dominance.