By Enyeribe Ejiogu,  Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye (Abuja), Sunday Ani (Lagos) and Paul Osuyi (Asaba) Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Wild jubilation greeted the victory of the Labour Party Presidential candidate, Peter Obi, who trounced the candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 10  polling units in Aso Rock Presidential Villa, Abuja. Results declared from the polling units within the seat of power showed that the Obi polled 809 votes to beat his closest rival, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who got 318 votes while Atiku Abubakar got 258 votes . Please refer to pages 7 and 8 for the details of the votes scored by each of the parties in the 10 polling units.  The Presidential polling units the results so far declared are as follows: Meanwhile, National President, Nigerian Bar Association ( NBA), Yakubu Maiykua in a chat with journalists affirmed that late arrivals of polling officials and materials were common complaints received so far around the country. Maiykua said this while speaking to reporters at Asokoro Polling Unit 013C while on election monitoring duty. He, however, expressed happiness that despite the late arrivals, voters turnout has been impressive, saying arrangement of voters and other activities at the Asokoro polling units have been satisfactory. He disclosed that the 1000 election monitors deployed from 128 branches of NBA across the country have reported the same problem. Maiykua said: “Like you see we are observing the elections and that is what we are permitted to do. We have discovered and also received reports because we have 128 branches across the country and we also have about 1000 observers across the country observing the elections. “What appeared to be the common complaints and what we observed is that there is late arrivals of polling officials and materials at polling units. “We are still going round other polling units within FCT.  We have noticed that where voting had  started there was orderliness. This polling unit here is one of such places where the arrangement is very excellent. “The excitement among the people is quite encouraging seeing that Nigerians are interested in exercising their franchise.” In Lagos State, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Dr. Olusegun Agbaje assured voters in the state that nobody would be denied the right to vote on account of the late arrival of materials in some parts of the state as long as the person had already made him/herself available at his or voting centre. He gave the assurance during his tour of some polling centres in Shomolu and Kosofe local government areas. The Lagos REC had visited Isaac John/Ogati ward 8, Unit 30 polling centre in Shomolu, Units 010 and 011 at Igbobi Junior High School, Polling Unit 76 at Jimoh Balogun Street, Ikosi Isheri and two polling centres at Isheri Junior Grammar School. Addressing journalists at Isaac John/Ogati polling centre, he addressed the issue of late arrival of materials in some areas, saying, “I have told them that we will not finish in those areas until the last person has voted. I think the challenge is with some of the staff and vehicles.” He gave assurance to voters that everybody would vote before voting ends. On complaints that the Labour Party (LP) was not on the ballot for the Senate and House of Representatives elections in the state, he said: “This is because most of those areas are where LP has court cases, but the areas we were given a go ahead by the courts, we put them on the ballot. They are in 14 out of 24 constituencies in Lagos State. I also want to repeat that that nobody leaves the polling unit until the last person votes.” Similarly, complaints over late arrival of materials and shortage of ballot papers, in some instances, characterised yesterday’s elections in parts of Delta State. Although, voting commenced early in parts of Asaba, the state capital, as well as Ika North-East Local Government Area where Governor Ifeanyi Okowa hails from, the exercise started very late in several other parts of the state. In Ughelli metropolis, Ughelli North LGA, voting started late due to the delay in the distribution of materials at INEC office in the area. Electoral Officer in the local government, Mr. Samuel Osolease, said the delay was not the fault of the commission. “The materials arrived on Thursday and I sent messages to the party agents so that I can start distribution but they didn’t respond. The delay is not on the part of INEC but the parties who failed to come on time and there is no way I could have distributed the materials on their behalf. To a point I have to complain to the CP in charge of Delta Central about the challenges I am facing,” he said. He, however, assured that there were sufficient voting materials, reiterating that the BVAS machines were in good condition. Reports from Warri South, Warri North, Okpe LGAs also showed that materials arrived voting centres very late. However, in Ika North-East, the council area of PDP vice presidential candidate and Governor of the state, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, the exercise which kicked off early, was generally peaceful. At unit 17 ward 02 (Eghoma Primary School), Owa-Alero where Okowa voted at about 9.40, the turn out was impressive. Okowa commended INEC for the hitch-free accreditation and voting and also lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for demonstrating his commitment to ensuring credible election. He expressed confidence that PDP will win the election at the close of ballot and collation. Other communities in Ika North-East including Akumazi where PDP presidential campaign spokesman, Charles Aniagwu voted and Ute-Okpu, the exercise was peaceful amid massive turnout of enthusiastic voters. But Minority Leader of the House of Representatives and PDP candidate for Aniocha/Oshimili constituency, Ndudi Elumelu, complained bitterly about the shortcomings at his ward 01 (Onicha-Uku) of Aniocha North LGA. Though Elumelu applauded the smooth accreditation process with the BVAS, he said ballot papers were under-supplied, adding that no result sheet accompanied the election materials. “In terms of the BVAS and the voting and accreditation process, it is actually excellent, it took less than one minute to get everything sorted out, and I voted. “But beyond my voting, there are issues that are very important to the smooth operation of the exercise. In all the units, we have insufficient ballot papers. A situation where you have a unit of 600 collected PVCs, not registered voters, you are seeing them giving out 300 ballot papers. That would cause a lot of chaos. It is not only in this polling unit, it is all over the locality. “In terms of timing, based on the law that we passed, the exercise is supposed to commence by 8am, they did not get here till about 10.10am. This late arrival is all over the place. “The supervisor is hoarding the result sheets, and this is causing tension in all the polling units, because the people are saying that they will not continue voting until the materials are complete. “I called the EO on the shortage of the ballot papers and she said that is what they were given from CBN. “I called the REC, and he told me that none of the EOs complained to him about insufficient papers and he was surprised and promised to resolve the issue,” Elumelu said. At Onicha-Olona in the same location, APC chieftain and Executive Director on the board of NIMASA, Victor Ochei, said the exercise was peaceful and orderly. Ochei, a former Speaker of the state House of Assembly, stated that the little voters had at the ward was difficulty in locating polling units as a result of the creation of new units. He said issues of vote buying and ballot box snatching have become unattractive as a result of the improvement in the electoral process and the cashless policy. “It is cashless policy, some small things that people used to see are not there, thugs are not there because you can’t pay, and even at that you don’t need them. If you fight, they will cancel the election and do it again. “I must congratulate the president, he promised and he delivered. It may come with pains, but let’s bear the pains for now until we are able to bequeath new leadership to ourselves. “The turn out was massive because we have those who registered newly, they all came out to vote. Unlike before when they used to come and shoot guns and snatch the ballot boxes, the boxes are there,” Ochei said Meanwhile, the state governorship candidate of PDP and current Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Sheriff Oborevwori, has stressed the need for a seamless electoral process that would further strengthen and consolidate the gains of democracy. Oborevwori spoke after casting his vote at Oha One, Unit 33, Osubi, Okpe LGA. He urged INEC to ensure that the integrity of the 2023 elections was not compromised, insisting that the Atiku-Okowa presidential ticket of PDP would emerged victorious. “I did my voting by 11.20 am, after the initial delay, but  we  thank God that voting has commenced and hopefully we are sure of victory because we have worked very hard as a party. “The process is peaceful and I hope it is going to be peaceful all through. INEC has tried, but should improve on what they have done now, the timing is very important. They should improve on the timing,” Oborevwori said.