From Scholastica Onyeka, Makurdi The gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress, (APC) in Benue State, Rev Fr Hyacinth Alia, has expressed gratitude for the solidarity and love shown to him during the party’s rerun primaries election, saying they shall not be taken for granted. Alia stated in a statement signed by the Director of Communications, Alialisation-Alia/Ode Campaign Organisation 2023, Kula Tersoo, and made available to newsmen in Makurdi on Sunday. The APC candidate appreciated the national leadership of the party led by Sen Abdullahi Adamu, the leader of the party in the state, Sen. George Akume and the state executive committee of the party for organising a credible gubernatorial rerun which saw him emerge victorious as the candidate of the party once more. He equally appreciated all major stakeholders in the “Alialisation” project, the rural populace and the media for their solidarity and sacrifices in placing Benue on the threshold of a new dawn. He said he was overwhelmed by the massive show of love and solidarity by party members who trooped out and voted for him during last Thursday’s court-ordered rerun gubernatorial primary elections in 11 LGAs of the state, saying he will not take it for granted. “You have once more demonstrated clearly your readiness to go all hog to ensure Benue must be fixed, and the future of your children is thoroughly prepared. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “You spoke very loudly and confirmed once more your earlier stand that I must fly the flag of our party, the APC. “The enthusiasm and determination you depicted at your various wards during the exercise obviously have sent a message deep inside the minds of those who want to stand in the way of an idea whose time has come. “I am proud of you. You have, by that outing, assured me that the task must be accomplished. Benue must be redeemed and made great again,” he stated. While stating that he is further spurred, and his willpower stiffened, Alia further assured that he is well-prepared and ready to lead the way for the liberation of the people of the state who have been traumatised by hunger, illnesses, and destitution orchestrated by bad leadership that has deliberately denied them access to their legitimate entitlements and basic needs of life. He urged the electorates to dust their PVCs and get ready for D-Day on March 11 to vote him to victory, promising that a vote for him will bring smiles to the faces of the masses of the state.