From Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure Lygel Youths and Leadership Initiatives, an NGO, has urged Nigerians to ignore former President Olusegun Obasanjo over his recent comments on the last Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections. The organisation, one of the election observer groups that monitored the Saturday’s election, disagreed with Obasanjo and other organisations that called for the cancellation of the election. The former President had in a letter which has gone viral condemned the election and called for its cancellation, claiming that the election fell short of the standard announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). But in a statement by the Director of the organisation, Mr Olalekan Oladapo, the group chastised Obasanjo and some other international observers calling for the cancellation of the electoral process and casting aspersion on INEC for failure to publish results from the polling units into INEC portal as promised and provided by the rules. The statement reads “Nevertheless, we equally note that some other regional bodies and domestic observers like YIAGA Africa did commend the INEC process in this election. It is expedient to say, this press statements were judgemental and premature. It is unexpected and disgustingly dissapointing. “Chief Olusegun Obasanjo is known to have given his support to one of the candidates in this election, therefore, he was not in the good position to make judgement in this matter. “Without mincing words, Lygel along with other credible bodies such as Nigerian Social Workers, Save Life Foundation and HURMA do play prominent roles as accredited domestic observers in this election. “Be that as it may, the field report gathered from about 23 states pointed the fact that INEC did score 90 percents. The election was credible, free and fair. Most of the B-VAS machines functioned very well except in few cases. Though, uploading to INEC portal posed challenge for unstable internet connections. Nevertheless, it is our view that delay or failure to uploading same has not affected the credibility of process. It is a means to an end that can be subjected to review in the post election disputes. “It is appalling for the former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and some international observers issuing a provocative statements that were capable of derailing the process. It is noteworthy that calling for cancellation of the election must be supported by weighty and clear evidence of which neither Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and other foreign observers who shared the same sentiments could not provide. “It is an elementary evidential rule that he who asserts must prove. It is equally morally reprehensible for the elderstateman to do so, at a time he is supporting a candidate on the partisan scale. “Nevertheless, the constitutional democracy that Nigeria subscribes to allows for persons to approach courts for dispute resolution. To our mind, whatever emerging disputes from this election must be channelled to the judicial arm for intervention. This is in line with the constitution and the international conventions. “We therefore urge Nigerians to be calm and law abiding in this trying period and disregard any statement for election cancellation. More so, when such statement is colour with political undertones. It is our believe that all will end well,” Oladapo added.