• Government paid N400m –Board Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Scholastica Onyeka, Makurdi The Benue State government said it has increased the bursary and scholarship awards to state students by 100 per cent. The state government also disclosed that it has disbursed over N400 million since the inception of the Governor Samuel Ortom administration in 2015  Executive secretary of the state’s scholarship board, Dr. Isaac Igbe, disclosed this in Makurdi recently. According to him, over 12,000 students had also benefited from the annual scholarship award.   Dr. Igbe was reacting to allegations by one Yoosu Skyt, who claimed to be the universal president of the National Union of Benue State Students (NUBESS) that Benue students were being owed a backlog of bursaries. Skyt had in a statement claimed, among others, that his faction of NUBESS has passed a vote of no confidence on the present administration in the state for not paying them the scholarship award. But Igbe said the Ortom-led administration had done a lot for Benue students and prioritized their welfare “far more than what any other government did in the past.”  Said he: “This government has paid bursary to Benue students seven times and this came after the government slashed the application fees from over N1,000 to N500 and also ensured a 100 per cent increment in the award.  “Before the coming of this government, students were receiving N5,000 as the regular scholarship but that was increased to N10,000. The application fee which was N1,200 was equally slashed to N500.”  The executive secretary, who acknowledged that the outbreak of COVID-19 and economic recession affected the activities of the board due to paucity of funds and the state government had not failed in its commitment to students’ welfare. He said the board was already making plans to screen students for another payment of bursary and called on the students not to allow themselves to be used for political reasons.  Also speaking, the Commissioner for Education, Dr. Saawuan Tarnongo said “we are in political times so you can expect such allegations from any student who has made himself available to be used by politicians.  The allegation that the state government was not paying scholarship was obviously false and baseless.” Tarnongo however, stated that the state government would continue to do its best for the education of the Benue child despite the challenges of funds facing the state. The President of NUBESS, Comrade Jennifer Ornguga dismissed Skyt’s allegation and insist that the union does not have any division. According to her, Skyt’s claim that he was the factional leader of NUBESS was just an act to seek attention “We have no faction in NUBESS because I was elected by popular votes by Benue students and my election last December was monitored by relevant security agencies and acknowledged by all the relevant bodies.  “So Skyt did not speak for Benue students because he does not lead any of them and he did not speak for my leadership, “ stated Ornguga.