By Bianca Iboma-Emefu As part of its efforts to develop the educational capacity of every child andboost learning outcomes across all tiers of education, including its primary schools, stakeholders and philanthropist have moved to improve teaching as Supportifly donated exercise books to students of Ijokodo High School and Cheshire High School, Ibadan,Oyo State. The organization celebrated valentine with its initiative “School is not scam” Exercise Books Donation Project. The initiative which kicked off last year is aimed at advocating the poor orientation that education is a scam and reverse the trend and misrepresentation that education isn’t profitable. “Though the foundation of education in Nigeria was built wrongly, the desire of most disappointed children is to get education.Education gives knowledge which is power .To celebrate this year’s special Valentine Day was the exercise book donation project by the organization. ” Supportifly team visited Ijokodo High School and Cheshire High School, apart from the donations they carried out a sensitization exercise,where the students, were lectured on the importance of staying in school, getting good grades and making their parents proud. The Founder of the group, a Philanthropist, Bolarinwa Kashif, said he believes in the power of education and his committed to using his platform and resources to create change in the educational sector in Nigeria. “Asides the school project, Bolarinwa who is also known as Mr. Fly, create jobs, and gives back to the society by supporting vulnerable persons, empowering youths and children of low-income homes.Speaking on the reason why his team decided to give back, to the society astute business man pledged his commitment to restoring hope, educational value and create a better Nigeria.“I want these children to know that education is the passport to their future, for tomorrow belongs to those who prepare for it today. The philanthropist has been recognised by several organizations across Nigeria for his contribution to the development of our society.This health and wellness expert, owns Fly Fitness gym, which is another arm of his business, who is interested in the general well being of people. His fitness outfit has become a safe heaven for pregnant women, where they are assisted with free stressless delivery through healthy exercise, the gym boasts of world-class equipment, and it is one of the most visited in the ancient city of Ibadan.The Supportifly team will be visiting more schools through out the year, and using it’s social media platforms to financially support the downtrodden, vulnerable and helpless who are in dire need.