By Billy Graham Abel Yola  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The wife of the standard flag bearer of the PDP, Titi Atiku Abubakar, has tasked Nigerians to vote for Atiku Abubakar for president come 25th February, 2023 in order to enjoy an all round growth, progress  and development in the country. Titi said, Atiku Abubakar is the only presidential candidates that has seen up close the management of the affairs of the thirty six states of the federation and has the most realistic vision, political will, experience and competence to change Nigeria into one of the most prosperous and thriving economies in the world. Titi Atiku Abubakar made the remarks at the Campaign finale of the women wing of the Presidential Campaign Council of the PDP in Yola, Adamawa state  Titi Atiku who launched a campaign initiative, Tagged, “Say No to Vote Buying,” at the finale of the campaigns of women wing of the party commended Nigerian women from all works of life and praised them for the resilience, endurance and determination to survive the perils imposed on them by a rudderless APC government. Titi decried the eight years of hardship and hard labour imposed on Nigerians by a government that has no interest in the life and livelihood of the common man in the country. She cautioned Nigerian women to be wary of those who will come around with wads of cash to lure then into selling their votes and confine them into years of hunger and pains of insecurity and economic failure.  She said, “Women do not sell your votes, it is not worth it. Your future and the future of your children is far more valuable than a few measures rice, a piece of clothing and whatever thing they would come to offer you in order to take away your future. “Stand firm and vote for the future that you and your children and indeed all Nigerians deserve and that future is in Atiku Abubakar. “We all must stand up and reject the APC attempt to make us slaves in our own country and vote for our God-given Freedom.” Titi said, “All the other candidates are just pretenders to the presidency whose experiences were just limited to overseeing just one state where they governed but Atiku has seen and experienced how to managed Nigeria as vice president and knows exactly where the loopholes are and would fix it if elected president in February, 2023.” Speaking at the occasion, the Director General of the Women Wing of the Atiku Presidential Campaign Council, Mrs Hadiza Adoda Yusuf said, women everywhere must wake up and secure Nigeria for the future of their wards by voting for the most competent candidate, who is Atiku Abubakar, in order to guarantee Nigeria’s all round turn around. Adodo said Nigeria is in a state of comma and there is only one person that can revive the country and take Nigeria into an era of economic and developmental revival and that person is Atiku Abubakar. She said Nigeria under the management of APC is in shambles due to incompetence, and total failure of the APC. Atiku is charged and fired up to fix the situation of out of school children in the country, he is determined to end the hopeless situation of incessant kidnappings of our families, he is ready to deal with the situation of endless strike actions that has become a norm in our academic institutions and he is passionate about about women cause that is why he promised to appoint about forty percent of women into his cabinet. Adado while urging women not to sell their votes said, “The naira redesign policy is the highlight of the epic failure and cluelessness of the President Buhari-APC led government and Nigerians must stand firm to reject the incompetence and the continues downward spiral of the country into economic woes, endemic poverty and national disgrace. “The naira redesign is an ongoing attempt at vote buying by impoverishing Nigerians by denying access to their own hard earned meagre incomes and bullying them into selling their votes out of desperation so that they can continue their reign of anarchy and hunger.  “There is nothing good that has come out of the policy except for hunger, starvation and general state of hopelessness that has been the signature of this administration. “What is good about government denying you access to the funds to attend to your basic necessities? It makes no sense at all.” The wife of the Adamawa state governor, Lami Fintiri said, this is the time that Nigerian women have the chance to make a difference and vote out the misadventure of the APC of the APC and endorse competence and reliability as embodied in the person of for er vice President, Atiku Abubakar. The wife of the former Adamawa state governor, Zainab Boni Haruna, the deputy governorship candidate of PDP in Adamawa state, Kaletapwa Farauta, the northeast and state coordinators of the women wing of the Presidential Campaign Council of the PDP, Mrs Hajara Wanka and Mrs Justina Nkom, unanimously called on women in the North to massively endorse the candidacy of Atiku Abubakar in order to change the fortunes of the country and make Nigeria great.