By Steve Agbota  As part of efforts to aid evagelism  More Nigerians will better enjoy and understand the Holy Bible as the Kingdom Hall Of Jehovah Witnesses in Nigeria unveiled the New World Translation Bibles in two indigenous languages – Urhobo and Pidgin English. The event coincided with the visit of representatives of the Governing Body of the organization to Nigeria. It was broadcast live to Kingdom Halls and Assembly Halls of Jehovah’s Witnesses located around the country with over a total of over half a million people participating. A member of the Governing Body of Jehovah’s Witnesses, Mr. Jeffrey Winder, who officially unveiled the bibles, said the New Testament of the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures in Urhobo and Pidgin English from language from Mathew to Revelation would further aid evangelism in Nigeria. “This is very important, because people will really enjoy the content of the bible. Its very clear, sharp and correct. It is done in a language that God want us to understand. This is another wonderful thing that the Jehovah organisation has done for Nigeria,” he said. He urged all members to be fully engaged in ministrations, and shun worldly affairs, urging  Nigerians not to be bothered by the prevailing situation, saying those problems are just temporary, while everlasting blessings are around the corner. Meanwhile, Media Representative of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Nigeria, Mr. Jama Onwubuariri, said: “Pidgin English is spoken by over 75 million persons in Nigeria. Other speakers can be found in West Africa, Europe and the US. These speakers deserve to understand God’s Word without the hindrance of language. The idea is to produce a Pidgin translation that could speak to the heart of Pidgin English speakers in different countries of West and Central Africa.” “There are about five million users of the Urhobo language. The language has some dialects and has changed over time. This translation in Urhobo is done in accordance with the dynamism of the language and can easily be understood by various dialectal groups within the Urhobo community,” he said. One of the most widely distributed magazines in the world – The Watchtower – is also available in Urhobo and Pidgin English. The Pidgin and Urhobo language publications can easily be accessed from jw.org by selecting the required language from the top right corner of the site. The Irohbo Bible can be downloaded on www. jw.org/urh-nwt. While the pidgin version can be downloaded on http://www.jw.org/wes-x-pgw-nwt.