By Steve Agbota                         The Chairman, Seaport Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria (STOAN), Princess Vicky Haastrup was on Wednesday conferred with the “Award of Excellence” by the Centre for Values in Leadership (CVL).  The award was presented to Haastrup at the 58th CVL Leader Without Title (LWT) Sector Leadership Tribute Colloquim in recognition of her outstanding contribution to the Nigerian maritime sector.  The Founder/CEO of CVL, Prof. Pat Utomi, said the award ceremony and a leadership colloquium with the theme “Inclusive Human Capital in the Maritime Sector” were organised to honour outstanding sector leaders for their special contributions in the sector where they worked.  The award, according to him, serves as a great platform to celebrate excellent leadership in service, extolling the virtues that distinguish the honorees and made them outstanding sector leaders and encouraging younger ones to emulate such virtues.  A hard working, passionate, compassionate and pragmatic leader, Princess Haastrup also serves as the Executive Vice Chairman/CEO of ENL Consortium, President of the Certified Institute of Shipping of Nigeria (CISN) and as a Trustee of some professional maritime women groups including the Women in Logistics and Transport (WILAT). Having developed a rare knack for managing people and resources, Princess Haastrup has made remarkable impact in the seaport especially in terminal operation, among dockworkers, professional women in maritime groups, and in maritime education, among others. With the courage and boldness of a lioness, Princess Haastrup has successfully confronted the daunting task of running one of the most strategic terminals at the Lagos Port Complex Apapa in a male-dominated sector. For her success and achievements, she has been bestowed with several awards including the Maritime Woman of the Year Award for many years running. In 2021, she was nominated for the Lagos State Man of the Year award – the first and only woman in the history of the state to be so nominated. Her company, ENL Consortium has also been recognised both at home and abroad as one of the best seaport terminal operating companies in the world. A few years ago, ENL Consortium made Nigeria proud on the global stage when it won the Port & Container Terminal Development Award in the prestigious Seatrade Awards held in Dubai, UAE. It was the first time any Nigerian company would win the Seatrade award.  Some past winners of the CVL Leader Without Title awards include Chief Akintola Williams, Alhaji Ahmed Joda, Chief Chris Ogunbanjo, Chief Ernest Shonekan, Sir Alex Ekwueme, Professor Ben Nwabueze, Chief Richard Akinjide, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, Professor Grace Alele-Williams, Alhaji Lateef Jakande, Alhaji Rask Akanni Okoya, and Otunba Michael Subomi Balogun, among others.