From Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has said he will  industrialise Anambra State and checkmate the menace of gully erosion in the state. Tinubu stated this while addressing a crowd at Ekwueme Square during his campaign tour to Anambra state ahead of the February 25 presidential election. He said he would tame erosion menace in the state as he did with the atlantic ocean in Lagos. He commended the intelligence and brilliance of Governor Chukwuma Soludo and promised to work with him to build a strong economy and development. Tinubu said: “We are not like PDP that forgot your rail line. They are liars. PDP is fabricating lies against me. I did not kill anybody, I’m a smart man and focused man. You have to ask PDP how long it will take them to bring their lies from Port Harcourt to Anambra.PDP shared your asset among themselves calling it privatization… “Youths of Anambra, I’m here today to concretize the promise of development that will promise you restoration and industrialisation. “You know me, you know Tinubu, the city boy of Lagos? You know I had the Atlantic tamed in Lagos. The way we tamed the Atlantic Ocean is the same way we will tame the erosion in the eastern region. We will tame the erosion. We will make the value of your property worth more than 1,000 times of your investment. “We will create jobs for our youths. We will industrialise and make Anambra both the economic city and the economic centre of Nigeria. Your resources will be applied to create handwork and hard work, better-paying jobs.” Tinubu insisted that he is the only one who has been able to establish a track record of success, with verifiable projects as governor of Lagos State. The candidate eulogized Soludo, saying: “Soludo your son is not contesting with me or against me. He is a brilliant man, he has the brain, he is a thinker, he knows the way. We will work together. When I become the president, Soludo will be one of those advisers who will bring prosperity back to you. So the way you voted for Soludo is the way you vote for Bola Tinubu.”  The former governor of Lagos State who was accompanied to the rally by his Vice Presidential candidate Alh. Kashim Shittima and other party stawarts   described his candidature as hope, joy, happiness and full networking. “PVC is the answer to make me your president, please collect your PVC to vote for APC in February 25” he said. Meanwhile, Tinubu shunned Anambra State traditional rulers council and Governor Chukwuma Soludo who waited for him at Government House, Awka to receive him. Tinubu instead came to the rally ground directly  from the airport and after the rally drove back to the airport to Cross River State without meeting the traditional rulers and governor as scheduled.