By Christy Anyanwu Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN) and its Emmanuel TV Partners have donated £10,000 (about N9 milion) as relief support to victims of earthquakes in parts of Turkey and Syria. SCOAN leader, Pastor Evelyn Joshua, who described the  natural disasters in the two countries as a great  humanitarian calamity, said the donation done through London Alevi Cultural Centre, and Cemevi, two Turkish Community groups based in the United Kingdom, is to help in resettling displaced people and giving  them a new lease of life.  “We  appeal to true human beings to please partake in bringing relief to our fellow human beings now in critical life conditions as a result of these terrible earthquakes. God is love, we are His image and we must live and lead in love. Every kindness you heartily show at this period of their needs illustrates clearly the place of love in human affairs as a tool of human relationships and good neighborliness.”  She said SCOAN would continue to sustain the lofty legacy of humanitarianism and altruism of its founder, Prophet TB Joshua as the foundation of the church was love as shown in the Commission’s logo:  “Let Love Lead for Jesus Christ, our Lord and Saviour is love.” She praised the church’s partners all over the world for their indefatigable spirit for always being ready to render selfless services to fellow human beings. She prayed that God’s grace, mercy and favour would always speak for them at every moment of their needs.  “Let us all continue in good works with concrete love for all around us with our light shining for people to glorify our Father in Heaven.” This exercise would be a continuous one especially to those in need as God ministers to the hearts of His children for an improved and better humanity.” The 7.8 magnitude earthquake which occurred on February 6, 2023 shocked the world with its  volume of destruction to lives and properties. This was followed by other devastating twin earthquakes which leaves thousands dead, injured and homeless. It was the 6th most deadly natural disaster this century after the 2005 tremor which killed about 73,000 in Pakistan.