From Kenneth Udeh The Obol Lopon of Ugep and Paramount Ruler of Yakurr, HRM Obol Ofem Ubana Eteng, has assured the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Senator Prof Sandy Ojang Onor, that his good works expressed through effective representation at the Senate will speak for him in his bid to become the next governor of Cross River State. The revered monarch, who spoke while playing host to the PDP Cross River Central Campaign Committee currently on a ward-to-ward tour within the Senatorial District, disclosed that Ugep people would always appreciate Senator Onor for renovating the Obol Lopon’s Palace to give it a befitting outlook. The royal father stated this on Friday when the PDP Central Senatorial District Ward-to-Ward Campaign Team visited his palace at Ugep, Yakurr Local Government Area of Cross River State. His words: “When you arrived, I said, you are welcome to your home because two years ago, the governorship candidate of the PDP, Senator Prof Sandy Ojang Onor, listed this palace in the budget as constituency project without me begging him. Today, Ugep boasts of a befitting palace, courtesy of him. “I would never forget what Senator Sandy Onor did for me and Ugep people at large. Each time I’m in this house enjoying the comfort and fresh air, I remember Senator Sandy Onor. For him to have done this even without me begging proves that when God sends people to be our helpers we don’t need to beg them. “Since Senator Sandy Onor roofed this place every Ugep man that looks at the palace would ask me, how did you go about it, and I would say, Senator Sandy Onor did it for us. He did not discuss with me, he didn’t ask me before doing it. So, Ugep people can never forget Senator Sandy Onor. He has helped us to do the first thing. This is the first building in Ugep. When Ugep people decide to show appreciation, we would remember Senator Sandy Onor.” Speaking earlier, the Deputy Director-General, State Campaign Organisation and DG Caterpillar Movement, Chief Joe Obi Bisong, who represented the Senator Onor said: “It is traditional that we must stop over at the palace to pay homage and solicit your royal blessings first as Paramount Ruler of Yakurr, Obol Lopon of Ugep and custodian of the rich culture and custom of Ugep. “We have come to deliver the message of the PDP which you’re already aware; the PDP remains the only political party that can guarantee our democracy. The comparative advantages the PDP has attracted to us individually and collectively can’t be overemphasized. From where the PDP stopped, the APC had not added an inch. Rather, they have plagued and destroyed what the PDP left behind.”