The Bayelsa Educational Development Trust Fund (EDTF), has distributed computers and accessories for coding and robotic practicals to 12 model schools across the eight local governments in Bayelsa. Dr Gentle Emelah, Commissioner for Education in Bayelsa, who presented the items to the benefitting school principals on Wednesday in Yenagoa, reiterated the state government commitment to providing quality education in all parts of the state. He said the presentation of the materials followed an earlier training of 103 students on computer programming and robotics, adding that the equipment would provide an opportunity for students to have practical training. He urged the principals to make the computers and materials available to Information and Communications Technology (ICT) teachers who had been trained earlier on coding and robotics. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the occasion also witnessed the grand finale of Schools Debate, sponsored by EDTF for 32 schools from the eight council areas in Bayelsa. Speaking earlier, Executive Secretary of EDTF, Dr Alice Atuwo, said the fund is intervening in critical segments of the educational sector, including support for schools debate. She noted that schools debate helped to develop public speaking and communications skills amongst young students in their quest for knowledge. She said that debate builds self-confidence of participating students, adding that most world leaders developed public speaking skills through school debates. Prof Francis Ikoki, Acting Chairman of EDTF, advised the students to maximise the opportunity to develop their public speaking skills which they would find useful later in life. Also, Chief Fidelis Agbiki, Regent of Tarakiri clan in Bayelsa, said that he is a product of school debate and got a scholarship from late Gov. Sam Ogbemudia of the old Bendel State for his outstanding performance in debate over 40 years ago. Government Comprehensive Secondary School Tumgbo, Sagbama Local Government Area (LGA), won the first prize of N100,000 and a trophy while Community Secondary School Ekeremor in Ekeremor LGA, clinched the second prize of N70,000 and a trophy. Bayelsa State Sports Academy, Asuama, in Kolokuma/Opokuma LGA, finished third and got a prize of N40,000 and a trophy while Government Model Secondary School Twon-Brass in Brass LGA came fourth and got a prize of N30,000 and a trophy. (NAN)