From Tony John, Port Harcourt  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Council for Rivers State has alleged that Governor Nyesom Wike is backing the presidential candidate of the APC, Bola Tinubu, in the forthcoming election. Director, Rivers State Campaign Management Committee, Dr. Abiye Sekibo, made the allegation in a statement, yesterday.  He said the committee’s claim was based on credible information at the their disposal that the governor had directed all council chairmen,  commissioners, party executives and all government appointees to work for Tinubu.  Sekibo’s allegation followed the withdrawal of the Adokiye Amiesiamaka Stadium, venue for the PDP presidential candidate campaign rally scheduled for Saturday, February 11. Commissioner of Sports, Christopher Green, in a statement alleged that the Rivers PDP PCC was collaborating with a faction of the APC to use the stadium  for an ulterior motive, which the government wouldn’t like to risk. Sekibo, however, said they were not surprised that Wike could take such a decision, describing the allegation as appallingly and highly preposterous. Said Sekibo: “We completely deny your assertion as patently false and perverse and we believe that our highly security agencies cannot furnish you with such untrue and unfounded lies. However, we are rather aware by credible information reaching us that Your Excellency has directed all local government council chairmen, special advisers, commissioners, party executives at the state, local government and ward levels and all other appointees of yours to work for the APC presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, even though you have not had the courage to announce same to the people of Rivers State.” Sekibo said the public utterances of Wike have pointed to the fact that the governor was bent on frustrating, and if possible, preventing the emergence of Atiku as president of Nigeria. He said Wike’s involvement in G-5 governors gang up against the PDP presidential candidate was the hight of anti-party activity, wondering why he should accuse them of hobnobbing with a faction of the APC.