From Scholastica Onyeka, Makurdi Preparatory to the presidential election come Saturday, the All Progressives Congress, (APC) in Benue state has organized a one day training for Ward, Local Government, Constituency and State Collation Agents for the elections. Speaking at the event which held in Makurdi on Monday, a chieftain of the APC and business mogul, Mr Moses Ayom, charged collation agents of the party in the state to make the desired sacrifice during Saturday’s presidential and next month’s governorship elections and reap the dividends after the elections. Ayom, who was a presidential aspirant in last year’s APC primaries, described the collation agents as the most important component of the election, urged them to be focused as they go into the field. He said, “You are the most important component in this election and this training is the most important segment of making Bola Tinubu President of Nigeria and Hyacinth Alia, Governor of Benue state. “As you go out for the elections be prepared to make some sacrifices; make yourselves stakeholders where you can make demands at the end of the election and even demand for political positions when government is formed after the election. “We know that we are having some difficulties; there is no money and no fuel, therefore it will make things more difficult, but with your dedication and hard work, we will make it”, he said. Also speaking, a member of the Presidential Campaign Council, (PCC), of the APC, Mrs Dorothy Aga, urged the collation agents to work tirelessly and ensure that APC emerges winner of the presidential, governorship and other elections. She observed that in view of the hard times, those that are mobile should assist those who are not to get to their polling stations on the day of elections. She emphasized that “The training is very important, but above all we have to make sacrifices, but let it be known to us that there is light at the end of the tunnel “Don’t sell your votes, don’t be tired. Our women are committed and we are ready. Even the okada riders will take us to the interior parts for the elections”, she stated. The former Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), for Abuja and Plateau state, Dr Godwin Kwanga, gave the collation agents tips on the processes of distribution materials and what to expect on the days preceding the election and on election day proper. Kwanga who is now the Director, Election Management for the Alia Campaign Organisation also trained the agents on what to do and what not to do on election day. He further advised the agents to go back to their various localities and stepdown the training to the polling unit agents and ensure they are versed in the processes of the election. Earlier, Mr Atom donated the sum of N1 million to support the agents on some basic logistics.