By Daniel Kanu Senatorial candidate for Abia South, Hon Dame Blessing Nwagba has urged her supporters not to be intimidated by the shinanigans of those threatened by her popularity rise in the constituency. Nwagba told her supporters at Ugwunagbo community during her campaign in the arena that she is the candidate to beat given her rise and rise and acceptability across all gender in the constituency. She therefore told her massive supporters at the campaign ground not to be perturbed by the intimidation strategy of her opponents as she would be victorious at the poll. ‘ I know they are threatened by my popularity and acceptability, never you succumb to their intimidation.‘ Our opponents are worried of the defeat that await them, they may want to behave funny but refuse to be intimidated.“We are on top in all the ratings do far for victory, and they are afraid but refuse to fall to their intimidation prank because we are soldiering higher by the day and God willing, victory will be ours” Nwagba told her supporters. Dame Nwagba noted further that”” our growing popularity across the 6 LGAs of Abia South has shocked them and putting them in disarray, so let’s make our final push to victory”.She thanked all the party members for finding her worthy to fly the party’s flag for Abia South Senatorial District in the forthcoming election, an opportunity she confessed, she does not take for granted. She called on the people of Ugwunagbo to partner with her in the election, stressing that if she emerges victorious it will be a victory for all to consummate for the benefit of all.She informed them that there were numerous opportunities and benefits that come with the Senate portfolio, which includes job opportunities, infrastructural developments, contracts and appointments etc, promising to ensure the constituent enjoy all benefits appropriately. She enjoined the people of Ugwunagbo to see her as one of their own because her only daughter is married to an Ugwunagbo man and therefore would never fail them.To the youths, Dame Nwagba promised to ensure that federal job opportunities are given to them as a means of curbing social vices.In the area of infrastructure, she promised to ensure that some roads in Ugwunagbo LGA are captured in the budget and that she will follow through until those roads are reconstructed.On agriculture, she promised that she will help farmers get fertilizers, modern farm implements and ensure that farmers get Federal Government Loans/grants that will aid their farming business.She challenged the women to rise to the challenge, counselling them that this is their unique opportunity to contribute their quota in the area of development/governance thereby changing the narrative. To improve economic activities in Ugwunagbo LGA and bring further development in the zone, Dame Nwagba noted that attracting a federal higher Institution will open the area more in terms of development. She stated that while in the state House of Assembly she was very vocal. She promised that when elected to the senate, she will not be a sleeping senator or mere bench warmere.She promised to use her contact and network to attract Federal Government presence to the Senatorial District. The APC candidate for Ugwunagbo State Constituency, Hon Chidi Onyeobia, in his contribution, assured Hon. Nwagba that the people of Ugwunagbo are not known for double standard.He assured her of their total support, while promising the people of Ugwunagbo that Dame Nwagba PhD will not disappoint them when elected. The Zonal Chairman of APC Abia South who also doubles as the Director General of the Total Blessing Campaign Council, Hon Justice Onwumelu, informed the people of Ugwunagbo that Dame Nwagba’s candidacy is divinely ordained and that she will be the next Senator of Abia South.He went further to inform them that she will bring development to Ugwunagbo and the Senatorial District in general. Also making his contribution, the LGA party chairman for Ugwunagbo, Chief Uzoma Nwanmuo, informed the people of Ugwunagbo that Hon Nwagba is the next Senator of Abia South Senatorial District because she is the one that God has ordained to bring peace in Abia South ” to avoid two brothers killing each other over that seat’.He urged the people of Ugwunagbo to come out in their numbers and vote for her on Saturday 25th of February, 2023. Mr Oliver Promise Esq, the assistant legal adviser of the Total Blessing Campaign Council, who is from the zone, told Ugwunagbo voters to hold him accountable “if Hon Dame Blessing Nwagba fails to fulfill her campaign promises to Ugwunagbo”. The Campaign rally attracted the presence of some members of the Campaign Council including Dr C C. Nwogu, a former Chairman of Aba South LGA, the State Auditor of the party, Elder Uzoma Ikeuka, amongst many others.