By Chinelo Obogo            talktonelo@yahoo.com Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Before United Nigeria Airline commenced operations on February 12, 2021, the Chief Operating Officer (COO), Mazi Osita Okonkwo, said the company faced very difficult hurdles which made the possibility of commencing operations uncertain. He says in this interview even though the airline had received its Air Operators Certificate (AOC) that the covid-19 pandemic delayed their plans to start operations as many of their staff who were abroad for training couldn’t return. However, he said despite the very difficult and uncertain business environment, the airline which started flying to six destinations now have nine routes and have carried over 800,000 passengers within two years of operations. He speaks on this and other issues. Our two-years journey We commenced our inaugural flight on February 12, 2021 from Lagos to Enugu and that happened just a few days after we obtained our Air Operators Certificate (AOC) which was also during the pandemic and the aviation industry had just been opened for business. Before the inaugural flight, we had actually started our process almost two years earlier. We got our aircraft in 2019, took them to Mexico for C-check, had our staff sent to South Africa for training but they were caught up there by the pandemic for almost eight months. Instead of coming back in November 2019, they came back November 2020. We spent almost one year in Mexico, with two engineers and four aircraft.  It was like this will never happen because we faced a lot of difficulties and costs that we incurred without any plans for them. Checks were supposed to be just three months and all the aircraft would be back. However, the challenges were a blessing in disguise because it gave us time to plan, to know ourselves and to review our plans. At the end of the day, we were able to start, just a few days after we got our AOC. Since then, we have flown every day of the year. We started with four planes, went to six destinations and now we have increased our routes to nine. Lessons have been learnt and what we have done is to build in some of these lessons into our plans for the future. The space we are in is one that is very difficult, competitive and uncertain. Whether you are talking of ground operations and facilities, aviation fuel, access to foreign exchange, ability of lessors and manufacturers and sellers to do business with Nigeria. All these things combined to make the industry more challenging. So that is one.  Secondly, we were pleasantly surprised by the reaction of the travelling public when we came on board. We were warmly received not just like an addition but like a partner that has come to make things different or to add to the service delivery. We know that there is room for improvement. In United Nigeria Airlines, we claim to be a learning organisation. We have good relationship with the agencies and they have been very supportive and we use this opportunity to express our gratitude to them. When we came in, we went out of our way to learn from those who have been there before us. We were among the first to advocate for the Spring Alliance, which is a collaborative framework to help passengers have a seamless experience when there is disruption. It has been very helpful but there is room for improvement. We are here for the long haul irrespective of what anybody tries to say. Cost of operations If you look at the cost structure of every operation, you have the aircraft come which is in most cases measured on hourly bases or circle bases for engine, mainframe, and any other things you have in the aircraft. You have to know that every component has a diminishing value. You have an aircraft and when it reaches a certain point and you have to go for some checks, whether it’s the nozzle, carbon seal or any parts.  The first thing you do when you start this operation is to be sure that you have engine, maintenance reserves, landing gears and others. They all have life. Everything is like a clock. You can’t escape maintenance. If you acquire that discipline of providing so that when it comes to your C-check, you don’t have issues with sending it. You just wait until that time. Aircraft cost is one big chunk of it which you have to manage. The second component is the operating cost which is basically fuel. Consumables, spare parts handling charges, all related to a particular operations. When we started, fuel was N200 to N300. As at December 2021, we were buying fuel at N350. Suddenly, it rose to N500, which was when the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) started shouting. Then, it was around N790 and N800 now.  The same with forex. You know that 99 percent of input into an aircraft is forex. There is nothing we produce in this country as far aircraft is concerned. So you need to get your forex. We suffered double jeopardy, one of access to forex, second is availability and cost. It moved from about N400 plus till a time we bought at N900 if you are not lucky to get from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Currently CBN meets about 20 to 30 percent of the needs and that takes time. You have to queue. Meanwhile, you have an Aircraft on Ground (AOG) that you have to get the spare parts. It has really been difficult. What we have seen is escalating cost of operation. It is escalating at a very rapid rate.  There were reactions when air fares rose from N23, 000, N30, 000 to N50, 000, N70, 000. Now what we are seeing is that because of the economic situation in the country nobody is flying at N70, 000. So airlines have reacted irrespective of what people say that they were colluding to fix prices. This is market force driven and survival driven. Now you can see that you get tickets of N40, 000.but I can assure you that people are underwriting those costs. There is nobody who can fly at N40, 000. It is not possible even if you filled the aircraft. Like us doing CRJ you sell at N40, 000. The Nigeria Civil Aviation Agency (NCAA) takes five percent, Bi-Courtney takes N4, 250, that is already 10 percent of the fare you have collected. Then you talk of fuel. One hour flight will take about 1300 liters of fuel, so there is no way anybody who flies at N40, 000 will not do anything. Actually, the major problem that Nigerian operators have survived the fuel crisis is again a testament to the promoters and Investors who continue to pump in their own capital to keep the airline flying, not that there is any magic thing about the fares. If you look at what happened to many airlines outside Nigeria. Many closed shops and many got huge handouts from governments to be able to keep afloat but we are not so lucky in this part of the world. I think that is the issue. If you manage forex at the rate of black market rate or parallel market rate if we use that term, then combination of that is a recipe for disaster. The good thing is that if you are looking at the long term, you try as much as possible to keep moving hoping that it will balance. Airline is not a one year business, it is a long term business. The focus of any airline is to manage costs. Spring alliance Spring Alliance has been very helpful. It is not like everybody chooses that but if it happens, that you don’t have enough time to reorganise your flight or to inform passengers, you can call our partner airlines to help you. There is an agreement, they will carry you and the settlement will be done later. I think the numbers are not really important but the spirit and the impact it is having is very important. banks, if you look all over the world, there is no place there is bank for aviation. If you look at our infrastructure, agric, industry, they failed completely. They are struggling and money is being pumped in them every now and then. What is needed is for the banks to develop specialists in the aviation and have desks in their different banks. It is usually a stage of development. What we require is aircraft leasing company that will be well capitalised and supported by both external and internal investors to act on behalf of operators to lease aircraft. So far, we have we have carried close to 800,000 passengers. Fleet capacity of United Nigeria Airlines We are still operating our four CRJs owned by us and we supplement with leasing from time to time during the peak period. We have plans to expand our fleet. It is being slowed down because of current situation of forex. We had contract with manufacturers and lessors but it has not been fully operationalised because of lack of access to forex. This year we are going to increase the tempo a little bit and make sure that by the end of second quarter, we will bring in the new fleet we have already committed. Lessons learned in two years  One of the lessons learnt is that it is important to be mindful of the operational set up and cost of operations. And to what extent do you go to make the customer happy without compromising the viability of the business. We learnt that it doesn’t make sense to be competing on fares. There is no heroism in flying an aircraft. The only heroism there is sustaining the operations of an airline. Instead of competing on fares, airlines should be focused on what they are doing, make sure you get the customers to a level that they are comfortable and happy with you. Secondly, we have to rely on government or CBN for forex. However, there are things that can happen here. You wait until it comes or you pay for whatever price you get. But even at that, you have to be very careful because there are certain vendors or manufacturers will not want you to move money from another account to their account. It is not allowed. So first you have to get money into your account and then you have to transfer. Many of these sources don’t want to transact into Nigeria. They want to transact outside the country. Then you make your private arrangements. The other lesson is that the team you have is what matters from lowest to the highest. They are very crucial to the execution of the flight plan. It means that we have to pay attention to our human capital development and we should delay our expansion plans.  Our hub We choose Enugu as a hub but immediately we did that the airport was shut down for runway repairs and that lasted for a long time and later Covid-19 came. We were forced to move down to Lagos to have a sub-base. We were given a piece of land after a long time to build our temporary engineering offices and others but still it is not adequate for us to do the kind of things we want to do. We are planning to fix that and gradually move into Enugu.  We want to start our regional operations and we believe that out of Enugu will give us some advantages. But we fly into Enugu on daily basis but most of our flights are not originating from there. In terms of state government, they have promised to give us some facilitations. We are still pursuing them. We hope to take it up again. Intervention There is need for intervention especially when an event happens that is militating the industry. The other element is foreign exchange. There is nothing wrong in allocating forex to airlines. There is need for that kind of allocation and the operators are asking for it which I think is legitimate. Leasing They are two different types of leasing: dry lease and wet lease. What most lessors do with Nigeria is wet lease. They man their aircraft, if there is a problem they take out their aircraft. They control it. Dry lease, they give you the aircraft and you control and you pay. So for now, many are comfortable with wet lease. Leasing is a financing option and you can have an operating lease or a finance lease whichever one, it gives you room to do your business grow rather than saving all the money one day buying. The other one on insurance is that there is no capacity internally to do big aircraft insurance in Nigeria. So many lessors are not operating in Nigeria because of insurance. It is killing business because even though you want to do indigenisation, you cannot do that with another person’s assets. Even if you buy an aircraft today, it is a requirement that you have to insure it even if you pay with your money in Boeing, Embraer or whatever. The insurance must cover Boeing even though they have sold it to you, they must be party insured in that transaction. So you can’t escape the international requirements of the business and limiting it locally will not help lessors.  So what people do is they can do local, just to satisfy all righteousness, you still have to go outside and take another one to satisfy the manufacturers. There is nobody that will give you an aircraft today, sell or lease that will accept local insurance, especially if it is above $200 million. The other ones we have like Embraer, there is no problem because the capacity is there. They will syndicate 15 insurance companies, no problem. But when you start going to $600, $500, forget it.