By Gabriel Dike Following resistance by the Lagos State University Students Union (LASUSU), the Senate of the Lagos State University (LASU) on Thursday made a U-turn on the directive of the Federal Government for institutions to shut down from Wednesday, February 22nd. LASU Senate at its 295the statutory meeting on Thursday, February 23rd suspended academic activities including the ongoing examinations in line with the ministerial directive. The Senate directed students to vacate the campus on Thursday, February 23rd and resume on Tuesday, March 14th. The students union had kicked against the earlier decision of the Senate not to fully comply with the ministerial directive. LASU Senate had varied the ministerial directive by asking students to go on break on Thursday, February 23rd and resume academic activities on Tuesday, February 28th instead of Tuesday, March 14th,2023 directed by the government. The Vice-Chancellor of LASU, Prof. Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello met with LASUSU executives led by the outgoing President, Adeoye Adelakun. The students insisted on full compliance of the government directive and the meeting ended in a deadlock. A statement by the university dated Thursday, February 23rd said the Senate reviewed its earlier decision on the directives of the Federal Government through the National Universities Commission (NUC) on closure of all universities and Inter University Centres in view of the prevailing circumstances and the non-availability of new naira notes in different parts of the country and decided that students vacate the campus from Thursday, February 23 and resume on Tuesday, 14th March 2023. The Senate further directed that other activities of the university should continue to run. The activities include the provision of skeletal services by staff members from 10:00 am to 3:00 pm and other essential services by the university. It also directed that students, who have registered for their Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVC) in the university be allowed to stay on the campus to exercise their franchise.