By Sunday Ani, Lagos Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. As part of its efforts to assume its rightful place in the financial market, the Forward Microfinance Bank, Onitsha, Anambra State has elected a new board and commissioned the takeoff of a new banking application to make the services competitive. This was made known in a statement by the Company Secretary, Lizzy Anyaonu, a copy of which was made known to the Daily Sun. She noted that with over 13 years of experience in microfinance operations to a satisfied customer base, the bank was recharged to move to the next level with the completion of its new head office in Onitsha. “At the recent extraordinary general meeting of the bank, key members of the board having satisfactorily served out their mandatory tenure in compliance with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) regulation formally retired. The three directors are Dr Nduka Ochuba, Lady Pat Okeke and Chike Anyaonu. Accordingly, new replacements were elected as follows: Lady Gozie Ochuba, Uche Okeke, and Sir Ernie Onwumere. The meeting also approved that their names be submitted to the CBN for confirmation. “Meanwhile, the meeting approved the recapitalisation of the bank and mandated the shareholders to act immediately to enable the bank to benefit from the emerging opportunities created in the economy. Also in compliance with the agenda of the meeting, Sir Ernie Onwumere was elected the chairman of the board of directors,” she stated. In their contributions, such keyboard members as Chief GUO Okeke, Dr Nduka Ochuba, Chief Jude Mbaegbu and Dom Obiekie, charged the new chairman to ensure that the shareholders got a high return on their investment, while also serving the needs of the customers with tailor-made banking solutions to meet their business requirements. They promised that given their pedigree in business, they would continue to support the bank to deliver. In his response, the new Board chairman pledged to build on the successes already recorded to move the bank forward by deploying technology, customised banking products, improved staff welfare packages, a high yield for the investors and social responsibility activities for the bank community. In his address, titled, “Together, this legacy has come to stay,” the former Board Chairman, Anyaonu described the bank as a worthy legacy bequeathed by patriotic shareholders, saying that it has remained evergreen since 2009 when it debuted. He expressed appreciation, particularly to all the stakeholders, the customers for their patronage and loyalty to the FORWARD brand, and the regulators without which the achievements would have been a mirage.