•Preaches love, care at Valentine  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. By Henry Uche  Sovereign Trust Insurance Plc has called on Nigerians to do everything possible to ensure violence -free polls onFebruary 25.  Managing Director/CEO of the company, Olaotan Soyinka, made this known in a goodwill message to customers and the insuring public at a media parley in Lagos.  The CEO urged parents to admonish their children to refrain from any acts inimical to the progress of the country and to encourage all their children of voting age to participate in the forthcoming elections as responsible citizens. “As the country prepares for its general elections, citizens should eschew every form of violence as they go to the polls to elect the next President who will lead the affairs of the country for another four years to come” With the occasion of Valentine at hand, he urged Nigerians to spread love to one another (in this economic hardship) by giving out gifts in different forms for the sake of humanity.  “As the world gets set to mark Valentine’s Day on February 14, it’s important we use the season to celebrate mankind and the humanity in us by showing love to all and sundry both in deeds and in our words”  According to him, “Valentine’s Day marks a significant cycle in the life of man as the day set aside to expound on the virtues of love and selfless giving.” He enjoined everyone to embrace peace, love, and harmony regardless of the race, language or colour of our skin.  Soyinka, stressed that beyond Valentine’s Day, Nigerians should endeavor to demonstrate the act of love amongst themselves while promoting the unity of the country at every point in time. He said for Nigeria to be great again, the task must be borne by everyone Nigeria- home and abroad.  For Sovereign Trust, he added “The Day will afford members of the organisation the opportunity to exchange gifts and pleasantries with staff members and customers of the company,” The Head of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations, Segun Bankole, for his part posited that the Company was totally committed to uplifting the ideals of promoting family values based on respect for human life and the preservation of good morals and love for all.  Thanking every policyholders of the company, he enjoined would-be customers to come on board – Sovereign Trust Insurance platform as their preferred insurer. According to him, the company would continue to support initiatives that will build, nurture, and develop human capacity that will benefit the generality of all both home and abroad.  In his words, “In line with our pioneering stance in the industry, we want to be part of the change agents that will make the country great again as we seek for a better and prosperous Nigeria in the days ahead.”