From Godwin Tsa, Abuja The United States of America, USA, has repatriated the sum of $954, 000, belonging to a former Governor of Bayelsa State, late Mr. Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, to Nigeria. Speaking at the signing of the Asset Return Agreement with the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, the US Ambassador to Nigeria, Mrs. Mary Beth Leonard, disclosed that the returned loot would be used to improve healthcare infrastructure in Bayelsa state. The Attorney-General of Bayelsa state, Mr. Biriyai Dambo, SAN, represented the Governor of Bayelsa State, Douye Diri, who is presently bereaved, at the official handover ceremony of the recovered loot. The US Ambassador who revealed that over 80 corrupt leaders were denied entry into US last year, said her country would continue to deny safe heaven to corrupt public officials. “This marks the conclusion of a legal process launched over 15 years ago, following the tenure of governance on the Peter on the CEA, also known as DSP. ” During his tenure as a public servant from 1999, which was a few trips in 2005 DSPs official salary did not exceed the equivalent of about $81,000 per year. However, during that time, he accumulated millions of dollars worth of property through corrupt acts such as abuse of office, money laundering, and other violations of Nigerian and US law. The United States court case against DSP through the collector posture, kleptocracy Asset Recovery Initiative as part of our efforts to combat money laundering and corruption. “Prosecutors working under this initiative are responsible for investigations and litigation to recover the proceeds of foreign official corruption. The funds are returned in accordance with our obligations under the UN Convention against Corruption and to further the tenets of transparency and accountability set forth in the Global Forum on asset recovery principles for disposition and transfer of confiscated stolen assets and corruption. We are glad to see the fruits of such efforts in return such as this one. As a result of today’s agreement, health care across Bayelsa will be improved through the rehabilitation, refurbishment and equipping of healthcare centres as requested by the state. Today’s gathering represents a continuation of our deep commitment to facilitating the recovery and return of the proceeds of official corruption to the Nigerian people. It’s also a testament to the partnership between our two democracies,” . On his part, Malami, who spoke through his representative, the Solicitor-General of the Federation and Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Justice, Mrs. Beatrice Jeddy-Agba, commended the US government for ensuring that looted funds are returned to Nigeria. The AGF noted that Nigeria has continued to enjoy favourable consideration from the US, not only in its agreement to return the funds that were looted from the Bayelsa state treasury, “but in other pending cases such as Galactica, Blue Assets, Saborne, amongst others”. He said: “You may recall that this asset return arose from the forfeiture and recovery of approximately $1million USD linked to the corrupt practices of former Bayelsa state governor, D. S. P Alamieyeseigha. “The United States Government, in collaboration with the Federal Republic of Nigeria initiated and completed forfeiture proceedings against certain real property and investment funds located in Maryland and Massachusetts against the former governor which resulted in the net forfeiture to the Government of United States of America totalling the sum of $954, 807.40. “Following the court order, the FRN and the USA have negotiated and finalized the terms of the asset return agreement. It is worthy to noted that in line with the terms of the Agreement, Mr. President has already approved the expected sum to be utilized for implementation of a Health Center Project for the benefit of the people of Bayelsa state and to be monitored by the Civil Society Organizations and the Federal Government, through the Federal Ministry of Justice”. Malami urged the US government “to continue to demonstrate the usual cooperation and understanding in other pending cases, so that the Agreements in relation thereto can be concluded as soon as possible to ensure that these funds are repatriated to Nigeria in earnest. “I wish to state that Nigeria is in dire need of these funds to support the implementation of more projects for the benefit of Nigeria and its citizens”, Malami added.