By Merit Ibe, ibe.merit@yahoo.com   Temi Ajibewa, a business coach and  managing Director ‘Win or Win Consults, in this interview with Daily Sun, spoke on some of the common challenges faced by young entrepreneurs and  gave tips on how to overcome them. The branding expert and Founder,  Temi Ajibewa Foundation, a social enterprise initiative empowering women and  young people through mentoring, training and coaching, has been coaching  for over seven years and  lends her expertise as a management consultant to organisations that  want to increase their productivity and brand effectiveness, through self mastery and personal branding training to startups She shares her thoughts on business with Daily Sun. Excerpt: Role of mentorship in business success Mentorship plays a huge role because mentors give you the psychological permission to be more, to do more. They show you what is possible. Mentors are people who have done what you want to do. They are people who have lived in your future. Mentorship is important because mentors will show you what is possible, how they did it and it will help you to avoid the mistakes that they have made, or seen other people make. They shorten the process for you. There are several platforms now that pair young entrepreneurs to seasoned ones. You reach out to your mentor not on a parasite level, but as one who has value to offer them. You need to ask yourself what skills, value you have to offer to your mentor in exchange so he or she can pay attention to you.  To get their attention, you have to bring value to the table.  Sectors Our coaching practices cut across sectors. So far there is an area of your life that you know you need accountability, motivation and inspiration. For you to follow through on the task that you need to do, then you need coaching.  Elements for successful entrepreneurs For success in business, an entrepreneur must possess the following:  *Positive belief in yourself is critical to the success of any entrepreneur. You need to  believe in what you do, the solution you bring to the market place and believe in your capacity to solve tangible problems for people. Our belief shape our disposition  about life. It shapes our habit and actions.  So, no matter the success you want to achieve, if your belief about yourself is not right, you will fail. Your beliefs are shaped by your environment, experiences , your wiring. Your beliefs must be positive and not contradictory with  your goals, plans, vision and others. •Build trust with people.Trust is a social currency that you trade with. As an entrepreneur, do not over promise, ensure you deliver as promised especially online deliveries. Let your case not be a case of “what I ordered versus what I got.” Try to be trust worthy and fulfil customers’ orders as truthfully as  you can. •Keep up-skilling your talents and passion. At this age, people say follow your passion and dreams, but sometimes your passion is raw. To help you succeed, you need to take your passion and talent to school. Add more to what you know. Invest on educating yourself. Submit to a mentor that can train you to be a better person so you can deliver at your highest level.  •Branding deliberately. One may be so amazing but if no one  perceives you to be amazing, no one will patronize you. Ensure you brand both your person and business together. Invest in shaping people’s perception about you,  especially in this internet age where perception is equal, if not more important than reality. Show up how you want people to address or regard you. Impediments inhibiting young entrepreneurs  What is stopping them primarily would be access to resources and not just money as capital but access to even ideas. Most young people are clueless. And why? Because they don’t study, they don’t read. They are not imaginative, they are lazy to read, study and attend seminars.  So, they are not open to ideas. And then there is a lack of mentorship, nobody is really showing us. Other challenges may include lack of ideas, lack of cash, capital, infrastructure, there is no power and no good internet. These challenges inhibit young people from exploring business opportunities. How to surmount challenges To surmount challenges, entrepreneurs need to invest in themselves. They need to educate themselves. Read a blog post everyday on your industry. Take a course on Google, LinkedIn and others.  Education helps you overcome fear, lack of confidence, ignorance.  Success starts first from the mind. So, protect your mind, your sanity. Stay away from drugs, negative people, alcohol and negative vices. Artificial intelligence and entrepreneurship Entrepreneurs should embrace artificial intelligence  and see how they can use it. They should not be ignorant. Understand what it is. Do your research and see the current role  that AI is taking and see how you can plug in to it. Business growth For business growth, entrepreneurs need to go digital with their  processes as much as possible to reduce  overhead, in  their  marketing, delivery and production. With it, your cost of running business is substantially lower than usual. Go universal with your solution. Upgrade your solution to where  people across the world can consume it. Make yourself scaleable, that is when you live in a global economy not one limited to naira and Kobo. Manufacturing aggregate index declines in Q4 The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has disclosed that its Aggregate  Index Score (AIS) of Manufacturers CEO’s Confidence Index (MCCI) declined to 55.0 points in the fourth quarter of 2022 from 55.4  points  obtained in  third quarter of the year. According to the report, the  fourth  quarter of 2022 was  adversely affected by escalation in the Consumer Price Index  (CPI), continuous erosion in Naira value and difficulty in accessing forex,  high cost of energy, persisting insecurity and the consequences of  lingering  Russian-Ukrainian war. The  association noted that these issues among others were principally responsible  for the difficult operating environment and its declining implication on manufacturing activities in the country during  the  quarter under review. “The  Aggregate  Index Score (AIS) of MCCI declined to 55.0 points in the fourth quarter of 2022 from 55.4  points  obtained in  third quarter of the year.   “ The index score of the current quarter though below that of the previous quarter,  indicates that manufacturers generally  still have confidence in the economy.  “Across Sectoral groups however, activities in the Pulp, Paper, Printing & Publishing with index score of 49.6 points and Motor Vehicle & Miscellaneous Assembly (48.4 points)  are negatively  affected  by the harsh operating environment in the  quarter under review as their index scores fell below the 50 base points. “Similarly,  among industrial zones,  activities in Rivers/Bayelsa (48.0 points) and Cross-Rivers/Akwa-Ibom (46.5 points) zones were depressed by high-cost of operating environment in the fourth quarter of 2022 as underlined by their index scores which fell below the benchmark points.” Consequent upon the  above  trends, MAN advised that  it was crucial  for the government to have a shift towards a better exchange rate management; and moderate the rising energy cost via better management of refined petroleum products imported into the country. The association said these among other measures would no doubt  help to reduce the current high inflation, which is fast eating-up the working capitals of businesses including manufacturing in the economy. The MCCI of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) is a quarterly    research and advocacy publication of the Association, which measures changes in pulse of operators and trends in the manufacturing sector quarterly, in response to movements in the macroeconomy and Government policies using primary data generated from direct survey of  over 400 Chief Executive Officers of MAN member-Companies.  MCCI Index is computed using data generated on standard diffusion factors of Current Business Condition, Business Condition for the next three months, Current Employment Condition (Rate of Employment),  Employment Condition for the next three months and Production Level for the next three months.   The Index has a baseline  score of 50 points  and scores above  the baseline  indicate improvement of manufacturers  confidence in the economy, while index score of  less than the baseline  suggests deterioration in the  operating environment.