From Layi Olanrewaju, Ilorin  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Residents of Alagbado, Okelele, Ayegbami, Dada and Oloje, as well as adjoining communities abandoned their houses and scampered to safety as the huge smoke from the fire suggested that the fire might reach their places. The state governor, AbdulRahaman AbdulRazaq, visited the scene of the incident at about 11.45pm to assess the situation and commiserate with the victims and residents of the area. It was gathered that the incident occurred at about 10pm, when a petroleum tanker was discharging fuel at MM filling station. Daily Sun was among those who drew the attention of the spokesman of the state Fire Service, Hassan Adekunle, to the incident and the agency responded to the distress call in good time. The firemen had a hectic time putting out the fire, but their quick response was applauded by the people who gathered from far and near to solidarise with those who reside in the vicinity of the scene of the fire outbreak. The Special Adviser on Strategy to Kwara State Governor, Alh. Saadu Salahu, whose private residence is located behind the burning filling station, expressed his appreciation to the state government and the firemen for their prompt interventions. Salahu, whose family were evacuated by neighbours, thanked the security operatives and his private guards for their prompt responses. He equally thanked the people of the adjoining communities, family, friends and relations for their concern and show of love while the nightmare lasted.  The special adviser noted that were it not for the prompt intervention of the state government and the gallant firemen, the fire outbreak would have wreaked havoc of unimaginable proportions. Above all, Salahu thanked Allah for ensuring the safety of the lives of the people in the neighbourhood and his own family members, as his residence is situated directly behind the burnt filling station.  Meanwhile, Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has commiserated with residents of Alagbado over a fire outbreak at a petrol station. Driving himself alongside two security operatives, the governor was one of the earliest sympathisers to arrive at the site as news emerged of the explosion around 10pm local time last Saturday.   He arrived shortly after the state firefighters had put out the inferno and called for calm as he commended the operatives for their prompt response and professionalism.  “Our hearts are with the occupiers of the lone house that got burnt and owners of the petrol station from where the fire started. We share in their pains and losses at this time,” a Government House statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Rafiu Ajakaye, yesterday, noted. “Similarly, I commend operatives of the state fire service, who responded quickly to the distress calls and were able to curtail and minimise the impacts of the fire. We are truly proud of what they did, and will continue to support them as we have been doing over the last three years.  “We thank Almighty God for His mercies, especially that no life was lost in the unfortunate incident. Regardless, the incident (just like avoidable flooding and some other occurrences often caused by poor planning), again, justifies our administration’s decision to draw up a new master plan for the state, beginning from the capital city. It is in our enlightened interest as a people to live sustainably, to avoid unintended harm to ourselves. Once again, we send our sympathies to the victims and pray to God to grant them comfort.”