From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja All Progressives Congress (APC) Tinubu-Shettima Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) on Wednesday launched an App, Thinking Caps, to mobilise Nigerian youths for its presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu and his running mate, Kashim Shettima. Speaking during the launch, the PCC said that the App is to prove that its presidential candidate and his running mate possess the requisite capacity to think out of the box to procure lasting solutions to diverse socio-economic challenges confronting the country. Director, Strategic Communication, Mallam Mohammed Idris, in his speech said that the App is targeted at explaining the capabilities of its presidential candidate to millions of Nigerian youths. “The “Thinking Caps” is an epithet used to depict our presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu and his running mate, Kashim Shettima, as possessing the requisite capacity to think out of the box to procure lasting solutions to diverse socio-economic challenges confronting our nation. “The demographic analysis of our population shows that the youth aged 35 and below constitute over 60 per cent of our population. It means Nigeria is a very young country – too young to know that there was a world without computers and GSM phones, let alone internet and social media. “As far as these youth are concerned, End-SARS protest was the biggest civil disobedience and fight for citizens’ rights that has ever happened. They cannot understand what the older population mean when they talk about military rule and how rights and privileges of citizens were curtailed. “They have no idea that some people came face to face with gun-wielding soldiers and some paid the supreme price fighting for democracy. They are not familiar with what it means to be pro-democracy activists, and the sacrifices they made that culminated in the democracy we enjoy today. “So, it suffices to say if 60 per cent of our population did not witness these events and have no knowledge about them, they are not able to make informed choice amongst the front-runners in this race, with particular reference to the candidature of Tinubu,” he explained. On the features of the App, the PCC explained that: “it will have a “quiz feature” which will be a means of educating the youth by getting them to attempt questions, have fun, and be informed. A quiz session contains 10 questions. “Participants would be shown the correct answer for any question missed. The objective is to ensure youth, irrespective of political affiliation, get educated about the immediate past, our candidates, the APC government, and the opposition. “Other functionalities include News Feed where end users can read news and articles about the campaign, gallery icon where audio, infographics, and video content can be viewed and shared on various social media platforms. “The app also has the capacity to directly engage the 93.4m registered voters. This will come in handy in the last lap of our campaigns to ensure we push out the vote! “With 24 days to the elections, the time to convince the electorate to secure an emphatic victory cannot be more auspicious. The Thinking Caps is our innovation to get this done so that Bola Tinubu can install “Renewed Hope” to the benefit of all Nigerians,” the committee said.