The Kaduna State  Pilgrims Welfare Agency on Wednesday sought collaboration with Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Kaduna International Airport, for a smooth Hajj operation in 2023 . The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the agency also sought collaboration with the Nigerian Immigration Service, (NIS)Kaduna Command. The Executive Secretary (ES) of the  Agency, Dr Yusuf  Arrigasiyyu, said the visit was to  collaborate with the agency  to also make necessary arrangements for a smooth Hajj operation in 2023 for prospective pilgrims in Kaduna State. NAN reports that the ES was received at the Kaduna International Airport by the Acting Airport Manager, Mr Abubakar Sadiq. He was also received at the NIS by the Kaduna State Comptroller, Mr Liman Kila. Arrigassiyyu said the purpose of the visit at the  airport authority was to engage them towards very peaceful  and conducive environment during the Hajj. He recalled that 2022 Hajj came as an emergency issue because the agency faced a lot of challenges. “We discussed with them and to see those challenges if such still exists and see how all together can resolve them so that we can have hitch free exercise. The ES, at the NIS Command, said in the 2022 Hajj, “we had challenges in the issuance of passports because there was scarcity of it. “That is why we are engaging them. He said the state comptroller had assured that passports were available and could be issued within 24-48 hours. “For those of us who are going to Hajj and have issues with the passport, we will submit it for intervention. “Our visit to FAAN and NIS is fruitful,” Arrigasiyyu said. The Kaduna state Pllgrims welfare agency with the management of Kaduna state command of Nigerian Immigration service during a coutsey visit to the command on Wednesday in Kaduna. Responding, the Acting Airport Manager, assured the agency of  support for smooth Hajj. Sadiq said the security situation in the airport area had greatly improved, compared to 2022 . The NIS boss said everybody knew that the service and the agency worked closely in national interest. “Anything less, the desired objectives my not be achieved. He assured that NIS under his watch, was ever ready to solve issues related to immigration services . “If you apply for passport today be rest assured in the next one to two days your passport will be ready,” Kila said (NAN)