Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has revealed that voting will not take place in 240 Polling Units across 28 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) during the forthcoming general election. It further disclosed that election will however hold in 176,606 Polling Units, explaining that the 240 PUs where elections won’t hold are those newly created ones without registered voters. INEC Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, made the disclosure in his remarks at a meeting with leaders of political parties in Abuja on Tuesday.The electoral umpire boss equally used the opportunity to raise fresh alarm on the increasing spate of violent attacks on supporters of political parties across the board, which have resulted in the loss of life in some cases. Yakubu specifically pleaded with the relevant security agencies to arrest, investigate and prosecute anyone involved in violent conduct, including incendiary statements capable of inciting a breach of the peace. He said: “Turning to the ongoing electioneering campaigns, the commission is concerned about violent attacks on supporters of political parties across the board, resulting in the loss of life in some cases. Let me once again appeal to Chairman and leaders of political parties to continue to call your candidates and supporters to order. “I also call on the security, intelligence and law enforcement agencies to arrest, investigate and prosecute anyone involved in violent conduct, including incendiary statements capable of inciting a breach of the peace,” Yakubu noted. On the 240 POs where voting will not take place, he said: “You may recall that in 2021, the commission successfully expanded voter access to polling units 25 years after the last delimitation exercise in 1996. Consequently, the number of polling units increased from 119,973 to the current figure of 176,846. “We also briefed you on our efforts to redistribute voters to the polling units in order to avoid the congestion that made voting cumbersome in many of them nationwide. “This requires the redistribution of voters to new polling units in proximate locations. Where they are separated by distance, this must be done after consultation with the voters. This has been done by our State offices nationwide. “However, there are 240 polling units without registered voters spread across 28 States and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). They range from one polling unit to 12 polling units in each State and the FCT, except Taraba and Imo States with 34 and 38 polling units respectively. “No new registrants chose the polling units and no voters indicated interest to transfer to them during the last Continuous Voter Registration (CVR), mainly for security reasons. This means that no elections will hold in these polling units. “In our avowed commitment to transparency, the commission is making available to Nigerians a comprehensive list of these polling units by name, code number and their locations by State, Local Government and Registration Area. With this development, the number of polling units where elections will hold nationwide on February 25, 2023 and March 11, 2023 is now 176,606,” he noted. Updating Nigerianson the mock Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS), Yakubu said: “Closely related to the distribution of voters is the identification of polling units. From the feedback we received from our officials and accredited observers following the recent nationwide mock accreditation using the BVAS, it is clear that some voters could not easily identify their polling units. This should not happen on election day. “Consequently, the commission is advising voters to confirm the locations of their polling units through a dedicated portal on our website. In addition, all voters who have been assigned to new polling units will receive text messages from the commission indicating their polling units. “We have also compiled the register of such voters and our State offices will give it wide publicity, especially for those who may not have provided their telephone numbers during voter registration or those whose numbers may have changed. “Voters can locate and confirm their polling units before election day by sending a regular text or WhatsApp message to a dedicated telephone number,” he explained. Yakubu also read the riot act to impostor party agents, noting: “As you are already aware, we have less than two weeks to the 2023 general election. The commission is finalising the issuance of 1,642,386 identification tags for the Polling and Collation Agents nominated by the 18 political parties made up of 1,574,301 Polling Agents and 68,085 Collation Agents. “I urge the Chairmen and leaders of political parties to ensure that only agents accredited by the commission and wearing the correct identification tags appear at polling units and collation centres during elections. “A situation where two or more agents claim to represent a political party, resulting in commotion at polling units or collation centres, is unacceptable. “Only Identification tags issued by the commission will be recognised on election day and violators are liable to arrest and prosecution for impersonation,” he warned