From Okey Sampson, Umuahia Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has commissioned the British-Nigerian University at Obuzor-Asa, Abia State with assurance of his administration’s support and commitment towards the growth and uplift of the institution.  He also announced scholarships to the first 20 students of the institution, five of which would come from Ukwa West where the school is located.  The governor noted that part of his administration’s commitment was to make Abia State an enclave for education from primary through secondary and tertiary levels, adding that his government created platforms and opportunities for young emerging intellectuals to learn, express themselves and aspire to become whatever they desire. Ikpeazu said the addition of the institution within the Abia space was not only a blessing to the state but a step away from the usual and expressed hope the university would top the league of universities in Nigeria and across Africa. The governor charged parents to take advantage of the opportunity provided by the institution to curb education migration to other parts of the world. Deputy Vice Chancellor of the institution, Ruth Oxford, and Director, Academic Planning, Medley Mayfield, in separate speeches, said the Nigerian British University was first of its kind in the South East. They assured students of an exciting academic journey with world class educational experience and a flagship programme that will help advance academic careers and excellence in human capital development as it prides itself of being the first to have a golf course in Nigeria.  They revealed further that the institution will, among other things, offer proactive and distinctive research, ensure practical academic experiences, adding that it was designed to give first hand academic and industrial mentorship programmes with first class facilities built with the learners in mind that will compete globally in any sphere of life when they graduate. The Pro-Chancellor, Chukwuemeka Umeoji, described the commissioning of the institution as a  dream come true.  He said he established the university to stem the trend and change the education narrative in Nigeria as the institution remains the most acceptable model across the world.  He noted that the academic session will allow staff and students have an international collaboration for the overall development of both staff and students of the institution.  “We want to implement a 24-hour service programme even if you are in a different time zone, you can be a student of this university. We have a strong IT infrastructure that has a database that can give students lectures delivered even as far back as two years ago,” he said. While commending Ikpeazu for his support, Umeoji assured the institution would bring honour to the host community, Abia and Nigeria at large.