From LAYI OLANREWAJU, Ilorin Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Leaders and stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara Central, on Monday, declared total support for the presidential candidate of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq and all the party’s candidates in the coming general elections. The party’s leaders and stakeholders who spoke glowingly about the giant strides of the AbdulRazaq’s administration in the past four years, said they would not allow a reversal of the gains of the past years. Speakers after speakers at a forum organised by the director general of APC Campaign Council, Alh Abdulfatahi Yahaya Seriki, expressed satisfaction that the governor has restored the lost glory of the state through the implementation of people- centred programmes and polices. “Never again shall we allow those who retarded the development of our dear state for 16 years return to power. We are assuring our God- sent leader, Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, who has wiped our tears of total support. We shall sensetise and mobilise of people who are the beneficiaries of the AbdulRazaq’s purposeful administration to elect all the APC candidates across board in the coming general elections,” the leaders declared. Those who spoke at the event included the commisssioner for Agriculture, Alh AbdulLateef Alakawa, special assistant on Religion, Alh Ibrahim Danmaigoro, director of strategic communication, Hameed Adio, special adviser on Strategy, Alh Saadu Salahu,Barrister Kunle Sulyman,APC chairman, Prince Sunday Fagbemi and women leader, Alhaja Falilat Mohammed. The director of Strategic Communication, Alh Hameed Adio who read the communique issued at the end of the event said:” The summary of the meeting is that all the APC stakeholders in Kwara Central have resolved to deliver 95 percent of the votes in the state to APC and all its candidates for presidency, governorship, national and state assembly seats. ‘What the governor has done in the last four years is enough selling point. Our governor’s name is like MTN, everywhere you go,” he said. ” The people of Kwara central are happy about the superlative performance of their son, Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq. They are also happy that one of their sons is leading the APC campaign as the DG. They have promised not to let their sons down. They have assured that they will vote for all the APC candidates across board because of their firm believe that a vote for APC candidates is a vote for continued development of Nigeria and Kwara State,” Saadu Salahu stated. For his part, Kunle Sulymana lawyer urged the people of Kwara central not to allow those who made their families suffered by failing to pay workers salaries back to power, adding that,” the leader of the defeated dynasty is now shedding crocodile tears after impoverishing the people of the state.” Addressing the gathering, the state APC chairman,Sunday Fagbemi said God has delivered the people of the state through the 2019 ‘Otoge revolution’, urging the people to jealously guard their new freedom by returning APC to power in the state and federal level. The APC women leader, Alhaja Falilat Mohammed acknowledged the governor’s many support for the women folk and assured that the women will reciprocate the governor’s kind gestures by voting massively for all the APC candidates. Speaking on behalf of PDP decampees, Alh Hassan Gegele, told the people of the state that their future is secured under the leadership of Governor AbdulRazaq, going by his giant strides in the last four years. The event was graced by the state APC secretary,Alh Mustapha Ishowo, women leader, Alhaja Falilat Mohammed, party chieftains, members of the state executive council, agencies and board of parastatals from Kwara central