From Charity Nwakaudu, Abuja Ahead of the fourth coming general elections, the Senior Pastor, Help from Above Healing and Deliverance Ministry Worldwide, Godwin Ube, has charged Nigerians not to allow any politician to use their blood. Pastor Ube gave this charge in an interactive section with journalists in Abuja. The cleric warned politicians to desist from bloodshed as anyone who wants to ascent any political seat with the blood of any Nigerian will face the wrath of God. Speaking on the same faith ticket, he said Nigerians should pray and wait for the will of God, adding that no one can fight for God. He said “those waiting to collect money before voting have murdered their tomorrow let them hold their money and you vote according to your conscience. “No one can fight for God. We have prayed, allow God to fight for himself and let His will prevail. “Don’t allow anybody to use your blood; the victory of anyone does not need the blood of Nigerian and anyone that want to use blood to climb the person will fail, the blood will cry against that person.” He added that Nigerians need to seek the face of God for rightful leaders that can deliver the country from the numerous challenges bedevilling the country. According to the word of God in the Holy Bible God said we should pray. We are seeing people with their faces but God looks at their hearts. As children of God, our daily prayers should be God give us a leader because we don’t know the right person that can really govern us and change our country positively irrespective of the tribe or religion. There are some seats that when they are given to you without experience you will fail, so you need to acquire experience before you acquire certain seats and ask for the grace of God, in everything you want to do without the grace of god you are going to fail. He further added that if Nigerians can vote prayerfully with their conscience, the rightful leader will definitely emerge. Also speaking on the naira crunch, he said is a good policy, adding that though stressful but the benefits are numerous,” nothing good comes easy. We will benefit from it in the future, other countries have done it and they benefited