From Molly Kilete, Abuja Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Lucky Irabor, has called on members of the Nigerian Armed Forces to defend and protect the nation’s democracy as Nigerians go to the polls to elect new leaders. He said Nigerians were now relying on the military and other security agencies as their last hope to provide a peaceful and conducive environment for them to carry out their civic responsibilities ahead the forth coming general elections. Irabor, said this at the 2023 International Military Sports Council (CISM) Day Run held at the Aguiyi Ironsi Military Cantonment in Abuja. The CDS, represented by the Chief of Defence Policy and Plans (COPP), Air Vice Marshall Jackson Yusuf, who reminded the military officers that the elections is just a days away, said “the nation is looking up to us as members of the armed forces and security agencies to play our roles in ensuring a peaceful election. “I want to seize this opportunity, therefore, to urge us to stand up to our constitutional responsibilities in fulfilling that role of ensuring a peaceful atmosphere for the election.” Speaking on the security challenges bedeviling the nation, the CDS, commended the armed forces and the security agencies for ensuring peace and stability in the country, and urged them to sustain the tempo to wipe the criminals. Gen Irabor, while noting that CISM was founded on the January 18, 1948, after the second World War (WW2) as a means of promoting global peace and unity after the destruction and the ravages that was witnessed globally, said the organisation had grown from a five-member country at inception to a 114-member states, adding that Nigeria became a member state in 1972. He said the organisation had remained committed to organising and coordinating militaries sports across the world and playing its role of promoting friendship through sports. Earlier in his address, the Director of Sports, Defence Headquarters, Air Vice Marshal Kabir Aliyu, thanked the CDS, service chiefs and heads of other security agencies for taking part in the 2023 activities. He commended the participants whom he said were able and ready to live up to their responsibilities as security agencies of Nigeria. He said the event was part efforts to enhance the physical capacity of the personnel in performing their constitutional duty. Also speaking, the Vice President of CISM and President, Organisation of Military Sports in Africa (OSMA), Major General Maikano Abdullahi, said tradition of CISM day run was activated by the founding five- member countries to mark the end of WW2. Abdullahi said the armed forces all over the world had been taking part in the event to keep themselves healthy and fit. He said the organisation had brought the armed forces together in harmony for the common good of all as well as other security agencies. The event was attended by representatives of the service chiefs, top military officers as well as personnel of the Nigeria Police Force, Department of State Services, Civil Defence, Nigerian Immigration Service, Customs, NDLEA among other paramilitary and security agencies.