By Brown Chimezie Non-profit organiation, AnyiAnyi Cultural Association, has charged Nigerian youths to resist monetary inducement by politicians to create violence in the forthcoming polls.  This is as it has tasked the Federal Government to ensure free and fair elections. The group in a communique signed by Anthony O. Okolo, National President; Nze Johnpaul Ezenwaka, National Vice President; Asomugha Johnpaul, Secretary General and Mrs Nneka Chimezie, National Woman Leader at its National Executive Council in Enugu recently, appealed  to the electorate to see this year’s election as a battle between freedom and corruption.  It solicited the support of Nigerians for Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi saying he was most competent and had the best plan for the country.  “Nigerians should promote competence and relegate ethnicity with political affiliation using the 2023 elections in the interest of economic stability in the Country. This becomes achievable if Nigerians can emulate Ndigbo, who had never given a block vote to any of their own since the era of democracy in 1999, even when theirs constantly featured on the ballot; this they have continuously done for their belief in the best candidate. Therefore, looking at the antecedents, manifesto, genealogy and personality of the candidates, it becomes clear who the best candidate is only if we are people of conscience, equity and fairness. We appeal to Christians and Muslims who stand by the truth to behold the Star, which could have risen from any direction. As a sequel to this, the AnyiAnyi Cultural Group, therefore, called on Nigerians to hit the polling units en-masse to vote for Peter Obi/Datti Ahmed. This is the best opportunity for Nigeria to rise again,” it said. The group urged the Independent National Electoral Committee (INEC) to approach this year’s elections with renewed vigour and commitment to credible polls.  “INEC should ensure freedom for about 200 million Nigerians who have been victims of high-level politicking by the authorities of power and status quo.”  The group, however, urged the federal government to create an enabling environment for a free and fair election.  “Freedom for political prisoners easily comes to mind, especially those whose cases have been adjudicated by the courts. This will go a long way to ensure peace in the South East region of Nigeria. The AnyiAnyi Cultural group appeal to security agencies to see their responsibilities as an opportunity for a new Nigeria, considering the nation’s current state.” The group cautioned youths against violence saying: “Those waiting for instructions to unleash mayhem on innocent voters should know  that one who kills his brother will never be a warrior and one who betrays his brother will never be trusted by the man who sent him. The proceeds or monetary reward for instigating violence can destroy the beneficiary.”