Former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu; his wife, Beatrice; daughter, Sonia, and co-defendant, Dr. Obinna Obeta, last Friday, relaxed in the dock in Courtroom Five, while Royal Free dialysis surgeon, Dr. David DuPont, was made to sweat as he was cross – examined by the four defence counsel, after his three-part testimony as prosecution witness. DuPont, who was led in his testimony by Crown Prosecutor, Hugh Davies KC, couldn’t reconcile some of the answers provided in the testimony he had earlier given with the questions posed by the defence. The honorary professor had, as part of his testimony, told the court that “it was a straight ‘no,’ to David Nwamini being a donor for Sonia. He said: “l was concerned about a donor of his age, because we know the long-term risks “of donating one of his kidneys at the young age of 21. Meanwhile, the trial continues tomorrow with another expert witness, Dr. Mason, to be called by the Crown. Sonia’s lawyer, Femi John, asked DuPont why then he provided a supporting letter towards Nwamini’s visa application, when his age was clearly stated in his passport. John also pointed out that “she was your patient – till July – and you were her clinician” to which the surgeon said “yes.” When John then said: “You’re now a prosecution witness, “ DuPont felt. He responded with, “l feel sympathy for my patient.” When asked if he knew Sonia suffered from A4-1 condition alongside the FSGS, DuPont said he had not tested her for the condition. Responding to another question, the prosecution witness said: “l’m not looking after her clinically now. I’m not responsible for her schedule.” When asked if he knew people undergoing dialysis could need the non-dialysis treatment day to recover and that their sleep was disturbed, he said yes. The lawyer then asked, what of Sonia’s case? DuPont said: “l didn’t discuss that with her.” Asked if he knew those on dialysis suffered “shortness of breath and fatigue, the clinician responded by saying he didn’t recollect if she discussed that with him.   When it was put to him that there was a risk of her memory worsening, DuPont paused briefly, and then said he didn’t have experience of treating people of her age. The lawyer asked: “Do you have any notes of discussing these matters with Sonia?” The expert said he would need to check his notes. During the cross-examination, he was referred to the supporting letter he wrote on February 14 of last year in support of Nwamini’s visa application, DuPont admitted knowing he was a young man. Sonia’s lawyer also referenced the letter of February 17, that said: “We confirm £10,000 has been cleared by Royal Free Hospital”. He wondered why they cleared the money if DuPont had concerns about Nwamini’s age.