From Joseph Obukata, Warri Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The ongoing efforts by the Federal Government to address the menace of crude oil theft in the country will be at the front burners as stakeholders convene in Warri for GbaramatuVoice 5th Niger Delta Economic Discourse Series. The Publisher and Chief Executive Officer of GbaramatuVoice, Mr Jacob Abai, who disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday, said that the event is expected to hold at the BON hotel, Warri, the commercial hub of Delta State. He said that stakeholders from the Niger Delta region, policymakers at both state and federal levels, Chief Executives of International Oil Companies (IOCs) operating in the country as well as their local counterparts in the down, mid and upstream of Nigeria’s Petroleum Industry are expected to grace the occasion. Others expected at the talk show include representatives of the Pipeline Surveillance Companies, media professionals, traditional rulers from the oil-producing communities, and representatives of different security agencies and apparatus in the country, among others. Abai said that the event, with the theme, “Crude Oil Theft As Hypothesis: The Antithesis Of Intervention To Stem Oil Theft In Contemporary Nigeria”, would hold on Thursday February 16, 2023. “Niger Delta Economic Discourse Series” is a flagship of GbaramatuVoice stable aimed at facilitating research methodologies, publications, and partner relevant agencies of government and private sectors on issues that are critical to the development of the oil-rich Nigeria’s Niger Delta region,” he stated. Abai said that the proposed meeting is in line with the newspaper’s culture of bringing to the surface, major issues confronting the Niger Delta region to where they could be seen and treated. According to him, the event would offer a road map for restoring the health and vitality of the Niger Delta region while proposing a strategy for sustainable development, empowerment and reintroduction/re-integration of the youths of the region to their proper pride of place.