Governor Hope Uzodimma has said that his administration will do all that is needful to help the Imo State University, Owerri, fulfil noble expectation of rising to the challenge of assuming greater responsibility to move the state forward. The governor spoke in his capacity as the Visitor of Imo State University during the 8th Convocation Ceremony which held at the Convocation Ground in Owerri yesterday. No less than 5000 graduands comprising first degrees, postgraduate diplomas, higher degrees and honorary degrees from 2014-2015 set up to 2022-2022 set which produced 30 first class graduates were convoked. Governor Uzodimma took time to explain why his government set up the Professor Chinedu Nebo Visitation Panel that carried out far reaching investigations into the state of the university prior to his assuming office in 2020, noting that the institution is now on the part of reckoning for academic competitiveness, scholarship and lofty achievements. The governor lauded the efforts of the new management of the university headed by the the Vice Chancellor, Prof U.U. Chukwumaeze, to key into the his dream and that of the founding fathers of the institution to make it a destination of choice for academic research, ideas generation and knowledge creation. “Let me use this occasion to enjoin the management to continue to work hard to instil the efficiency and all-round discipline that is required to move the university forward,” he said. He promised that his administration would continue to support the university to realise its set objectives. His words: “Imo State government under my watch, considers education as a fundamental investment in our drive towards development. There is no limit to what our society can achieve through a properly structured and result-oriented educational programme.” In congratulating the graduands and their families, Governor Uzodimma charged them to be true ambassadors of the university, being responsible enough to keep the light that had been kindled in them by the institution ever burning. “Go forth and illuminate new paths, for Nigeria, for Imo State, for the Imo State University and for your respective families. Remember that Imo people are looking up to you to be good ambassadors. You must not fail them,” he said. Governor Uzodimma charged the graduands to pursue everything noble, shunning crimes and criminality wherever they exist. To encourage academic excellence and scholarship among the students, Governor Uzodimma announced a back-dated automatic employment for all the best graduating students covering the period culminating to the 8th convocation ceremony as well as for the best graduating student of the university each year going forward. He also announced to the admiration of the management and staff, his administration’s intention to pay by March ending 2023, the “salary of February 2020, which was a result of the mismanagement of the previous administration of the university.” Earlier in their different remarks, the Vice Chancellor, Prof Chukwumaeze, thanked the Visitor profusely for all the support his administration had extended to the university.