From Abel Leonard, Lafia Barely two weeks to the 2023 general elections, the senator representing Nasarawa South senatorial zone at the National Assembly, Senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, has embarked on a ward-to-ward campaign for Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Governor Abdullahi Sule, himself and other APC candidates. The aggressive campaign tour which took the Senator and his campaign train to the palaces of Andoma of Doma, Emir of Awe, Sarkin Azara, Sangarin Kwandere, Shabu and others, witnessed a large turnout of supporters of APC. Senator Almakura, during his campaign tour to Awe and Doma local government areas, commissioned one point five-kilometre road, three blocks of fifteen classrooms and hostels as well as many other projects he executed as Senator. The senator explained that so far from 2019 to date he has spent over 4 billion naira on 52 constituency projects since he became Senator four years ago. In all the palaces and wards visited the Senator campaigned for Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Governor Abdullahi Sule, himself, Abubakar Nalaraba, Danbala Al-Makura and APC house of assembly candidates. “We are going to all nooks and crannies of this Senatorial Zone to engage people and convince them why Bola Ahmed Tinubu, should be elected as President of Nigeria, Gov Sule should be returned as governor and all other APC candidates. “I can tell you two major reasons. Bola Tinubu had come a long way. This is a Nigerian that is truly Nigerian, who scarifies his own interests for the benefit of other Nigerians. “Bola Ahmed Tinubu, since 2006 has provided a platform for Nigerians, particularly Atiku Abubakar, to fly the ticket of the president, even when Tinubu himself could also partake in the process. “In 2011 he provided a platform for Nuhu Ribadu, who is from the north and in 2015 he was at the forefront of ensuring the success of Buhari, through the merger of legacy parties, not only that, Tinubu, championed the cause of the primaries where President Muhammadu Buhari, emerged victorious. “Tinubu, continued with his commitment towards the Buhari project until Buhari, was elected in 2015 and re-elected in 2019, I feel Tinubu, has paid his dues. “Every northerner and every APC committed loyalist who means well for this party and foundation that has been established by this party to improve, should not hesitate in supporting Ahmed Bola Tinubu” “Secondly, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is a champion of democracy; someone who has spent the better part of his life, working towards getting democracy rooted in Nigeria” “Not only that, he is a dispassionate Nigerian, who calls Nigerians from all walks of life and gives them responsibilities even in places where they are not indigenes; I feel this is the kind of attributes and values Nigerians need” Senator Al-Makura said.