Increasing your fanbase as an upcoming artist should be your main goal because this is the major difference between an upcoming artist and a successful artist. If you can’t do whatever it takes to increase your fan base as an upcoming artist, then you can’t succeed in the Nigerian music industry even in other countries. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This blog loves upcoming music artists which is why we keep publishing informative and helpful content that will be helpful for them so that they can have a successful music careers. In this article, how you can increase your fanbase as an upcoming artist in Nigeria. This article is also useful for upcoming artists in other countries whether in Africa or other continents. Good music will always be the favorite of people regardless of their lifestyle or interest. As an upcoming artist with little or no fanbase, you need to focus on writing good music that millions of people will love to listen to over and over again. Although music promotion is very important for you as an upcoming artist, once you have good music you will spend little money to promote your music. Your major focus as an upcoming artist is to focus because you can’t have a successful music career if you don’t drop good and high-quality music. A lot of upcoming artists get record label deals because of one single. Likewise, some upcoming artists get free collaboration both local and international because of one single. The advantages that come with high-quality music are unlimited for you as an upcoming artist in Nigeria or other countries of the world. Invest your time when it comes to music writing because your success depends on it. Get the latest South African music I’m very sure you are spending money on music promotion before but you need to increase the amount of money you are spending on music promotion weekly or monthly. It will be so difficult for you to increase your fan base if you are still spending the same amount on music promotion. You can seek the support of family, friends, or investors so that they will have enough resources to promote your music content to a wider audience in Nigeria. If you are not using a local language with a small audience, then you need to upgrade to an international language so that you will be able to reach a wider audience. It will be a bit difficult for you to succeed in Nigeria if you use a local language with a little audience in the country. Even though the Yoruba language is very popular in Nigeria especially in the music industry at the moment, it is advisable to use English so that you will be able to increase your audience base because there are millions of people in Nigeria that only understand the English language. Get the latest Naija music You can never succeed as an upcoming artist in Nigeria without hard work. Even successful and well-known artists in the country are still working so hard so that they can stay at the top. You don’t need anyone to tell you that the Nigerian music industry is so competitive and only those who work so hard succeed in the industry. Spend more time writing music, recording, associating with successful artists for collaboration, and doing other related stuff so that you will be able to upgrade yourself from being an upcoming artist to a successful artist in Nigeria. You need to know that there is no appointed time for you to upgrade from being an upcoming artist to a popular artist in Nigeria. Only your hard work will upgrade you because there are a lot of people that have been upcoming artists for all days of their life. While some people drop just one single and become so popular within a few months in the music industry. Hard work is very key if you want to increase your fanbase as an upcoming artist in Nigeria. This is one of the most effective strategies to increase your fanbase whether you are an upcoming artist or not. You need to invest whatever it takes to collaborate with popular artists in Nigeria or other countries of the world so that you can use their popularity to upgrade your music career. A lot of now popular artists have done this in the past to boost their music career and increase their fanbase within a short period. You can also do the same, it is still working. Get the latest movie. One of the most effective methods of increasing your fan base as an upcoming artist in Nigeria is to go on a music tour. Even though you have little or no fan base you can still organize music concerts in several states in Nigeria. You will be able to draw the attention of people to yourself within a short period and increase your fan base, especially if you have good music that everyone wants to listen to always. Get the latest Naija songs, Promotion is very important for you as an upcoming artist you need to promote your music brand. Likewise, your music, including videos and others using the available Media outlet in Nigeria and other countries of the world. Although media tours are very expensive for an upcoming artist, it’s worth it. So you need to do it according to your budget. There are several low-budget media outlets. You will be able to know the low-budget Media outlet in Nigeria with little research and you will be able to start to visit them one by one. With this strategy will be able to create awareness for your music brand, music videos, and other content that you want to promote to a wider audience in Nigeria. Now you know how you can successfully upgrade yourself from being an upcoming artist to a successful artist by increasing your fan base in Nigeria and other countries of the world. You need to take all of the information in this article seriously because it is from a successful music promoter in Nigeria. They will help you to succeed in your music career.