From Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers Governor, Nyesom Wike, has said he was mindful of the interest of the state to protect it at all times, which is why he cannot mislead the people on the political decision that has been taken concerning the presidential candidate to support in tomorrow’s general election. He made the assertion, yesterday, while inaugurating some critical road projects in Port Harcourt Local Government Area. The first project inaugurated at the Ojoto roundabout in Mile 2 Diobu in Port Harcourt was the dualized Azikiwe/Iloabuchi Road. Other roads projects also inaugurated by the governor were the reconstructed/rehabilitated Edeokia/Femie/ Aeroplane Drive/Okuru Junction to Abuloma Jetty Road, which took place at the Aeroplane Drive junction in Abuloma community. The governor said he has always advised political office holders or others in positions of trust, to be aware that when their people confide in them, they should use the opportunity to better their lot. The governor said such leaders should endeavour to change the socio-economic life of their people who they represent in a manner that make living pleasurable for them. “When you have an opportunity, when the people give you their confidence, you must also make them happy. How do you make them happy? It is by making sure you provide them with things that change their environment, with things that will better their lives, with things that will improve economic activities in their area,” he said. Governor Wike reiterated that Rivers State has offered him bounteous opportunities to accomplish so much in his private and political life. He said for such benevolence, he is eternally indebted to the state and will protect its interest in all his life. Wike said nothing would make him to sell the state for anything, not also for a pot of pottage like others who only seek personal benefits do. “I am sure the people of this area will continue to remember what this road looked like. If I were you, I would take the old picture of this Iloabuchi road and the new one, and put it in your house. When you wake up, you look at what it was and what it is now. “For what Rivers State has given me, I owe them (Rivers people) a lot in my life and I will continue to protect their interests. I am not going to sell Rivers State to anybody for a pot of porridge. And that is why if I tell you this is the right place, know it is the right place. I am not going to deceive you. I am not one of those leaders who are running around for their personal interests.” Speaking on the dualised Azikiwe/Iloabuchi Road, Wike commended the host community for cooperating with the contractor, Julius Berger Ltd., to deliver the project within the stipulated completion period of six months. The governor disclosed Rivers State government will soon lay the foundation for the construction of the palace of the Eze Epara Rebisi on the land acquired for the project by past military administration.