Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Olanrewaju Lawal,Birnin Kebbi Kebbi State Police Command has apprehended three suspects for being in possession of N17million counterfeit currency notes in Warrah town of Ngaski Local Government Area of the state. Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ahmed Magaji Kontagora who confirmed this while parading some suspects at the police headquarters, Birnin Kebbi,disclosed that,the suspects were arrested with the assistance of National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) at the Warrah motor park. According to him, “on 29/01/2023,at about 0910hrs,police personnel attached to Warrah Police Station with the help of NURTW at Warrah motor park,arrested 3 persons in possession of currency notes worth the sun of N17,000,000,reasonably suspected to be counterfeit. ” The suspects are ; Faruku Zubairu,Ibrahim Musa and Salish Muhammed all ‘m’ of Gungun Tawaye and Chupamini villages,Ngaski LGA respectively. Investigation has been completed and the suspects will be soon be charged to court for prosecution “, he said. Kontagora,also disclosed that 25 years old boy,Yunusa Adamu of Bumawa area of Koko town,was arrested for allegedly rapping a 5 years old Fatima Abdulrahman in his mother’s room, given her N20,N30,N50 and threatened her to kill her if she reveal the secret. While parading a cripple allegedly defiled a five years old boy,CP Kontagora explained that the 20 years old boy,Sani Abubakar threatened to kill the boy if he divulge his atrocity with him. “On the 2nd February, 2023 at about 1330hrs,one Sani Abubakar,’m’ aged 20 yrs of Tudun Wada area,Kalgo town,sexually harassed one Mustapha Aliyu,’m’ aged 5 years of the same address and attempted to forcefully had sexual intercourse with him through his anus,which is against the order of nature. ” He further threatened to kill him if he dare disclosed the secret between them. The suspect will be charged to court after completion of investigation “, he said. He disclosed that his offers also arrested another rapist,identified as Bello Shehu,27 years for allegedly rapping one Fadila Umar,15 years in conspired with his friend,Yahaya Abdullahi now at larged when the victim was going to Islamiyyah school on the 4th February, 2023 at Badariya area,Birnin Kebbi. The Commissioner of police who explained that,the suspect deceitfully lured the victim into her room and had sexual intercourse with her, said,efforts are being intensified to arrest the fleeing suspect for a thorough investigation and prosecution accordingly.