By Enyeribe Ejiogu The campaign to nudge firms in the Oil and Gas Industry adopt processes and practices to achieve United Nations Carbo Zero Initiative to slow down climate change will get a big boost with the innovative technologies which AVEVA, a global leader in industrial software, will exhibit at the Egypt Petroleum Show (EGYPS) 2023 opening on Monday (tomorrow).  The firm has been at the leading edge of driving digital transformation and sustainability with the latest digital solutions for responsible use of the world’s resources.  Working in collaboration with Schneider Electric, AVEVA will showcase how connected industrial ecosystems harness data to support innovation and improve business performance for sustainability in the energy industry.  AVEVA brings its unparalleled portfolio of world-class digital software to EGYPS 2023, including popular asset performance management solutions and value chain optimisation products, as well as the market-leading AVEVA digital twin technology.  In addition, show delegates will be able to experience first-hand, how AVEVA Unified Operations Center offers a 360-degree view of plant operations with greater visibility of energy sources, consumption and greenhouse emissions data.  With businesses beginning to realise the productivity, efficiency and scalability benefits of cloud computing, the industrial software-as-a-service platform AVEVA Connect has demonstrated its value in driving innovation, growth and sustainability for the energy sector. The platform now hosts AVEVA Production Accounting, which addresses the pressing issue of unaccounted losses for refineries, petrochemical plants, and other processing facilities.  Over 20,000 enterprises in over 100 countries rely on AVEVA to help them deliver life’s essentials: safe and reliable energy, food, medicines, infrastructure and more. By connecting people with trusted information and AI-enriched insights, AVEVA enables teams to engineer efficiently and optimise operations, driving growth and sustainability. In the run-up to the exhibition, AVEVA Vice President, Middle East, Africa and Turkey, Nayef Bou Chaaya, said: “After a successful presence at COP27 where we demonstrated the essential role of data-led technologies in supporting climate innovation and industrial decarbonisation, I’m delighted the AVEVA team is returning to Egypt. “At EGYPS 2023, we will showcase how our unrivalled suite of cutting-edge products can support the creation of a resilient, net-zero energy future, while enabling customers to implement their sustainability roadmaps at a challenging economic moment,” he said. Digital technologies speed up innovation and value generation by eliminating internal and external silos. When operational data are infused with artificial intelligence (AI) in the cloud and shared across the connected industrial ecosystem, they creates a digital thread of contextualised, real-time, information so teams can collaborate in a smarter and more connected way. Applications such as the industrial digital twin are already proving how companies can realise unprecedented economies, synergies and benefits for their own organisations and for society at large. The connected industrial economy further leverages these strengths by sparking industrial ingenuity and facilitating co-operation in a world where businesses face innumerable headwinds. Bob Parker, Senior Vice President at leading analyst firm IDC said, at AVEVA WORLD 2022 “a rapidly evolving digital economy is unparalleled in depth and scope after being accelerated by the pandemic. Asset-intensive industry segments of the old economy including oil and gas …are under new pressure on operations to be increasingly resilient. This requires higher levels of asset instrumentation and capabilities that use the data gathered to speed up decision-making and innovation. Ultimately, this is leading to the rise of connected industrial ecosystems.” Delegates visiting the AVEVA and Schneider Electric stand at EGYPS 2023 will experience first-hand how they can combine engineering data with real-time and transactional data to unlock actionable insights, redefine processes, enable deeper collaboration, and reduce value leaks while raising productivity – all in real time. They will be able to learn how to converge engineering, operations, and other data in context for end-to-end enterprise visibility using a single 360-degree view of plant operations. The latest asset performance management solutions will also be demonstrated at the event. AVEVA experts will share how the connected industrial economy presents unprecedented opportunities for the energy sector at stand 2C30 at EGYPS 2023. The event is being held at the Egypt International Exhibition in Cairo from February 13-15, 2023.