Nigeria’s much anticipated general election is almost here. Ban on political campaigns was lifted September 2022. Since then, there have been intense campaigns by political parties to market their candidates to the electorate. Unfortunately, these campaigns have been short on issues and long on hate speech and brickbat.    Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. More disturbing are the series of physical attacks unleashed on some political opponents during rallies in some parts of the country. In January, for instance, there was an attack on the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Mr. Peter Obi, and his entourage after a rally in Katsina. On February 11, 2023, thugs also attacked many Labour Party supporters who were heading for the party’s mega rally in Lagos. Many of them sustained varying degrees of injuries. Over 30 people were said to be on admission in different hospitals. A number of vehicles were also destroyed. Before the Lagos attacks, there were recorded voice notes by the traditional ruler (Baale) of Igbara in Eti-Osa area of Lagos and one other person threatening to deal with any resident who fails to vote for their preferred party in the election.   In Delta State, gunmen recently attacked the security team of the vice-presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. They killed three policemen. In Jigawa State, one person was killed during a violent clash between supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the PDP at a campaign rally. Five people were arrested. In Rivers State, there were attacks on the rallies of the APC in Opobo and Port Harcourt in January this year. Some people sustained injuries. Earlier this month, the Director-General of the PDP Presidential Campaign Council in Rivers State, Dr. Abiye Sekibo, narrowly escaped assassination. In Imo State, the residence of the spokesperson of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, was razed down few weeks ago by assailants who also killed about four people in the attack.   In 2022 alone, Nigeria reportedly recorded 339 incidents of election violence. In a data released last month by a non-governmental organisation, Kimpact Development Initiative, 165 people were said to have lost their lives due to political violence. The South-West leads in election violence with 99 incidents while the South-East follows with 77 incidents. South-South has 56; North-Central, 54; North-West, 32; and North-East, 21. Between 2019 and 2022, at least 134 incidents involving the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) offices and staff were recorded. In the 2011, 2015 and 2019 elections, over 1,149 people were reportedly killed. Violence could scare away voters and electoral officials on the Election Day. With the burning of INEC offices and facilities in some states, it may also lead to the shortage of electoral materials. Already, INEC has announced that voting will not take place in 240 polling units across 28 states and the FCT because of lack of registered voters. Such voters were afraid of choosing those polling units due to insecurity. According to INEC, Imo State has the highest number of 38 cancelled polling units. The South-East has been a theatre of violence against the electoral umpire. To ensure peaceful elections, the National Peace Committee had brought the presidential candidates of the various parties to Abuja in September last year to sign peace accord. Few days to this all-important election, the peace accord has been observed in the breach. Human rights group, the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has even petitioned the International Criminal Court (ICC), asking it to investigate the election-related violence and hold the perpetrators accountable. We urge different political parties and their candidates to rein in their supporters and members. Nigerians want a peaceful transition. Let’s remember that there will always be life after politics. Democracy only thrives where there is tolerance of opposing views. The task before the presidential candidates is enormous. They should be forthcoming with what they will do to lift the country from the shackles of poverty, economic meltdown, infrastructure deficit, insecurity, corruption and so on.  We need good leadership and genuine change and that is what this election is all about. Security agencies, on their part, should endeavour to be neutral and also ensure adequate security for the election. Nothing should be done to compromise the election. It is given that they conduct threat assessment and profiling of identified criminal elements or political thugs with a view to proactively deploying security personnel to combat likely attacks during elections in identified flashpoints. They must find a way to neutralise identified thugs and other criminals who are bent on precipitating violence to derail the election. The electorate should not feel intimidated by anybody. They should go out and vote and also be on the alert to defend their votes. They should avoid the use of intemperate language or hate speech that is capable of igniting anger and attacks.  The authorities concerned should endeavour to enforce Section128 (d) of the Electoral Act which prescribes penalties against threats or inflicting of injuries against anyone involved in an election. We cannot afford to scuttle this election in any way.