Alleges some govs trying to manipulate the process  From Sola Ojo, Kaduna Presidential Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar, has asked the National Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof Mahmood Yakubu to instruct the collation officers for yesterday’s election to upload the results from the polling units to the commission’s server immediately. Atiku says that this has become necessary to checkmate some governors who are trying to compromise the results at the local government collation level. Media Adviser to Atiku, Paul Ibe in a statement Sunday night quoted his Principal saying “it will be a disservice to Nigerians and a negation to democracy for anyone to subvert the will of the people as freely expressed in their votes of yesterday”. He called on Nigerians to be calm but vigilant to ensure that anti-democratic elements who are masquerading as progressives do not steal their mandate. “And in what is already turning out to be a nail-biting race in the 2023 Nigerian presidential elections, early results from polling units and exit polls indicate that Atiku Abubakar is projected to become the first candidate to meet the mandatory 25% requirement of votes cast in at least 24 states. “According to the latest projections, Atiku is also set to exceed expectations in at least 10 states, where he is projected to garner over 40% of the votes cast”, he said. Meanwhile, the PDP presidential candidate has expressed gratitude to the Nigerian people for their support so far and pledged to continue to work hard to earn their trust and confidence. “We are humbled and honoured by the early projections, which indicate that the Nigerian people have seen in Atiku Abubakar the kind of leader that they want to lead them into a brighter future”, he added. “While it is still too early to predict the outcome of the elections, Atiku Abubakar’s early success has certainly put him in a strong position as the race enters its final stages. “From the current available figures, Atiku is winning in many states in the 6 geo-political zones. We urge our members and party agents to remain steadfast and watchful”, he urged.