•Lauds Obasanjo, Clark, others for backing Obi From Magnus Eze, Enugu  Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has called on the South East Governors’ Forum, religious and traditional leaders, women groups, as well as the Association of South East Town Unions (ASETU) to rise in one voice and condemn the deteriorating security in the zone.  This is as it also urged student bodies, market associations and the Igbo vigilance groups, among others, to boldly tackle insecurity ravaging their respective jurisdictions.  The apex Igbo body also lauded former President Olusegun Obasanjo, leaders of Afenifere and Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), Pa Ayo Adebanjo and Chief Edwin Clark, respectively and  leadership of the Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum (SMBLF) for throwing their weight behind Peter Obi, presidential candidate of Labour Party. A statement by National Publicity Secretary of Ohanaeze, Dr. Alex Ogbonnia, said the Igbo are faced with existential challenge in their homeland, and that the governors should rise to their constitutional duty of protecting the people.  It further urged every community, led by the traditional ruler and the President-General of Town Union to address the issues of insecurity in their domain.  Although, Ohanaeze does not wax eloquent on partisan politics, Ogbonnia said the group was overwhelmed by the groundswell of support the Obi candidacy had received from across the country.  “It is to this end, that Ohanaeze insists that going by the political culture of sharing, zoning and rotation of power which have been in existence since Nigeria came into existence, it is the turn of the South East to produce a President for Nigeria in 2023.  “…On Thursday, February 2, 2023, history was made at the Wells Carlton Hotel, Asokoro, Abuja. Eminent Nigerians comprising the members of Middle Belt led by Dr. Bitrus Porgu, the South South or rather the PANDEF led by Chief E K Clarke, the Afenifere led by Chief Ayo Adebanjo and the Ohanaeze Ndigbo led by Ambassador Okey Emuchay, gathered to endorse Mr. Peter Obi, the Presidential candidate of the Labour Party.  “Speaker after speaker described Obi as a man who with a mere force of morals, uprightness, persuasions, robust intellect and goodwill is capable of transforming the political narratives of the most populous, rich but one of the most backward African countries.”  Ogbonnia stated that the speakers in unison, acknowledged that Obi was the best thing God had done for Nigeria in this century, describing him as a game changer, soldier of morals, democracy archetype, the popular sentiment of Nigerian youths, an abundance philosopher, prudent resource manager, ethnic barrier-breaker and a quintessential audacious Igbo icon.