By Lukman Olabiyi Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Former Ogun State governor, Olusegun Osoba, and others political leaders in South West have revealed how the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, was pressurised to vie for president. Osoba and other political leaders in the region revealed this at the Yoruba and South West leaders of Thought Summit in Lagos, yesterday. A chieftain of APC and convener of the summit, Tajudeen Olusi in his welcome address, also revealed how the late Alaafin of Oyo, Lamidi Adeyemi, initiated the summit before his death, to rally support for Tinubu’s candidature. He disclosed all Yoruba traditional rulers were involved in the project to make Tinubu president of Nigeria right from inception, noting that the monarchs’ involvement was the reason Tinubu is accepted by majority of the Yoruba and others tribes. Osoba, in his address, said Tinubu joining the presidential race was not his own making but decision of prominent and progressive politicians from South West who pressurised him (Tinubu) in 2007. The former Ogun governor said the idea of Tinubu to aspire for president of Nigeria was muted at a dinner organised for him after he ended his tenure as governor of Lagos State. According to him, many prominent and progressive politicians were at the dinner at a popular hotel on Awolowo Road in Ikoyi to honour him for his outstanding performance. “It was at the gathering in 2007, we all pressurised him to aspire for president and he agreed, since then, he had work tirelessly to justify the confidence we have in him,” Osoba said. The submit, which was attended by many prominent politicians and elders, market and religious leaders from South West, was also used to endorsed Tinubu as sole candidate for president. Another former Ogun State governor, Gbenga Daniel, chairman of the submit, Ayo Oladigbolu, Oluwo of Iwo, Abdulrosheed Akanbi, Speaker of House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, Ayangburen of Ikorodu, Kabiru Sotobi, and others called on the Yoruba to unite for Tinubu. They all pleaded that Nigerians to forgive and forget the past, and mobilised support for Tinubu candidature in the best interest of Nigeria. The host governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, also charged Nigerians to support Tinubu and vote for him massively. He said Tinubu is the right man for the job of president due to his track records, achievements and plans for Nigeria. Specifically, in his address, Akanbi said all the traditional rulers in Yorubaland have endorsed Tinubu as president, and they were already working and mobilising for the APC candidate. He charged all the sons and daughters to vote massively for Tinubu because of his contributions, commitment to develop Nigeria. He said: “We, in Yorubaland, cannot leave our son and go and vote for another person.  “The pronouncement of the kings have erased whatever they are saying, Nobody is above the kings in Yorubaland, no matter who they are, they are subject of a king in Yorubaland,” he said. The APC presidential candidate, Tinubu, who arrived at the event late from Abuja, entered the venue at about 4:30 and also left at about 5:40 to Abuja, urged Nigerians to vote for him on Saturday. Tinubu said he was very happy to meet the hall filled to its capacity despite coming late. He appreciated everyone and urged them to mobilise their people to vote for him.