Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Okwe Obi, Abuja Pan-Ohanaeze Ndigbo socio-political, Igbo Elders Consultative Forum, has hailed the endorsement of the Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi, by Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom. Governor Ortom, who had announced his support for the former Anambra State governor when he addressing Igbo community, said he was ready to sacrifice his senatorial ambition in Makurdi. Speaking on the basis of the support, Chairperson of the group, Dr Simon Okeke, at a press briefing yesterday in Abuja, stated that anybody from the region who does otherwise, his deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), should be checked to ascertain the authenticity of his genealogy. The event had in attendance, Prof. Ihechukwu Maduike, Nze Fidelis Ozichukwu, Prof. Charles Nwokeaku, Barr. Onrou Arua, Brig-Gen. Austin Egwuagu (Rtd), Maj-Gen. Lincoln Ogunewe(Rtd) and AVM Osita Obierika. Okeke, who served as Chairman of Police Service Commission, said: “Since our Independence in October 1960, this is the best chance of South East to produce a President. “Both North, East and West have come to accept that our son Peter Obi is the best out of all the Presidential candidates canvassing for votes to win the presidential election on 25th February 2023. “Any Onye Igbo thinking otherwise or standing on the fence may be of doubtful genealogy and needs to submits to DNA for proper proof of his or her true parentage. “We request that you come out and be part of the history to vote in Peter Obi and Datti Ahmed to take the mantle of leadership and rebuild our badly divided country, to save the boat from sinking. “We need your Votes not Bullets.In a democracy, your vote is your weapon, not bullet or sit-at-home.Peter Obi is Primus inter pares i.e 1st among equals.” He warned separatist group, threatening to truncate the poll especially in the South East that their plan would lead to more crisis. “To those who are demanding for a separate country called Biafra, don’t forget that your fathers and grandfathers had demanded and fought to have that same Biafra roughly 52 years ago. “Millions died in action and out of sheer starvation. Some of us here participated in that bloody war. “What makes you believe that you can win that war this time through extreme activism? That war was fought with guns armoured tanks etc. “We must think strategically in determining how to structure the future for our people, children and grandchildren. “Yes, you may say that it is your fundamental human right to demand separate existence. “But the quest for separate existence is not restricted to Nigeria, In Britain for instance, Scotland which is part of that country is seeking a separate existence. “So also, is the case with Spain where Barcelona is demanding same. “None of them is demanding it by killing and maiming their fellow country men and women or by imposing a needless sit-at-home order or carrying out unspeakable acts of violence and destruction against their own people. “They do it by participating actively in their country’s general elections where they sponsor candidates that will be their voice in their parliament where they argue their case and push it via a referendum to decide which way to go. “Why not borrow a leaf from them and pursue your demand in a civilized manner? “You can never get Biafra through violence and slaughtering yourselves and sitting at home when parents should be at work and children should be in Schools,” he said.