By Chinwendu Obienyi  Endeavor Nigeria has welcomed Sari El-Khalil, Chief Transformation Officer, Seven-Up Bottling Company and co-founder of W Motors, to its board of directors. Sari El-Khalil is a business leader and an entrepreneur with over 14 years of experience in finance and as an entrepreneur in Africa, The Middle East, and The United States of America. Endeavor Nigeria’s board of directors comprises top business leaders who actively support the organization’s efforts to advance the local entrepreneurial ecosystem and economy. Commenting on the appointment, Bolaji Balogun, Vice Chairman of the Board and CEO of Chapelhill Denham, said, “We are pleased to welcome Sari El-Khalil to the Endeavor Nigeria Board. I believe Sari’s own experience and his family’s deep history in entrepreneurship, and his experience in business transformation will be invaluable to Endeavor Entrepreneurs and our network in general as we grow and pursue our enable entrepreneurship in our economy.” Speaking on his appointment, ‘Sari El-Khalil said, “I am thrilled to be included in an eclectic community with like-minded influential members geared at economic value creation. I look forward to learning and working closely with entrepreneurs to add value wherever possible.” El-Khalil joins Endeavor Nigeria’s board members, including Atedo Peterside CON (Board Chairman, Endeavor Nigeria and President & Founder, Anap Foundation), Bolaji Balogun (Board Vice-Chairman, Endeavor Nigeria, and CEO, Chapelhill Denham), Jaideep Gulab (CEO, Rosemonde), Halima Aliko Dangote (Group Executive Director, Dangote Industries Limited), Yemi Lalude (Managing Partner, TPG Growth), Andrew Alli (Group CEO & Partner, SouthBridge Group), ‘Tokunboh Ishmael (Managing Director & co-founder of Alitheia Capital), Mitchell Elegbe (Founder & GMD, Interswitch Group), Suresh Chellaram (Chairman, Chellarams Group), and Ireayomide Oladunjoye (Managing Director & CEO, Endeavor Nigeria). Endeavor is the world’s leading community of high-impact entrepreneurs. Founded in 1997, Endeavor is a global organisation with a mission to unlock the transformational power of entrepreneurship by selecting, supporting, and investing in the world’s top founders.  Today, Endeavor’s network spans 41 markets and supports more than 2,300 entrepreneurs whose companies generate combined revenues of over $42 billion US and have created more than 3.9 million jobs. Endeavor’s unique entrepreneur-first model and network of trust provide a platform for founders to dream big, scale up, and pay it forward to the next generation of entrepreneurs. Endeavor launched its Nigeria office in 2018 to select and support the best founders of companies at the scale-up and growth stage who recognise a responsibility to pay it forward and multiply their impact in Nigeria’s entrepreneurship ecosystem.  In Nigeria, aims to select 4-6 companies a year, and today there are 33 Endeavor Entrepreneurs leading 16 companies in their portfolio.