From Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, has urged Nigerians not to vote for any candidate supporting the manner in which the currency redesign policy is being implemented in the forthcoming election. Wike spoke at Opobo Town Sandfield during the Rivers State People’s Democratic Party (PDP) campaign flag-off rally for Opobo/Nkoro Local Government Area yesterday. The governor explained that such candidate is an enemy of Nigerians, who are already plunged into inexplicable economic hardship with non-availability of both the old and new naira notes to enable them buy food for their households and fuel for their cars. Wike said that he was convinced that President Muhammadu Buhari, who might not have been properly briefed on the hardship the naira swap is causing Nigerians, is already getting feedback on the ill-advised policy and would review the implementation. His words: “Anybody, who claims he loves Nigeria and is contesting election,  but is supporting this CBN policy, will you people vote for such person? It is only the enemies of Nigeria that are supporting this anti-people policy. I believe President Muhammadu Buhari was not properly briefed about  this policy.” He insisted that the policy was being implemented to provoke the civil populace into embarking on public protests that could be used as excuse to postpone the forthcoming election. He pointed out that there is already a cabal behind the policy implementation who are pushing to install an interim government, which would prevent Nigerians from using the PVCs to determine their next leaders, saying “no matter the provocation, I urge everyone to be calm. This election must hold because nothing will stop an Opobo man to become governor.” Challenging Abiye Sekibo, on virtue of integrity, Wike urged the former Minister of Transport to explain why former President Olusegun Obasanjo sacked him from his cabinet. He said that as a man of integrity, he served as minister under President Goodluck Jonathan, later resigned honourably to contest governorship election and won. Campaigning for the PDP governorship candidate,  Siminialayi  Fubara, who he described as dependable and loyal, Wike enjoined Opobo people not to undermine the opportunity that they have now to produce the next governor of the state. He assured of the signing of the contract for the construction of Opobo Ring-Road, which he said would be completed by Fubara when he wins the election and assumes office as governor. He also told them to deliver their votes for all PDP candidates and await instructions from their leaders on the presidential candidate to vote for. The Rivers State governorship candidate of the PDP, Fubara restated his promise to the leadership of the party to never disappoint the confidence reposed in him to fly the party gubernatorial flag. Fubara urged the Opobo people to deliver their votes as an appreciation of the opportunity given to their son to become the next governor of the state.