A group of medical doctors operating in Enugu State have thrown their weight behind the election of the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Dr. Peter Mbah, saying they arrived at the decision to support him after a careful assessment of his manifesto.  This was even as the leadership of the National Disability Support Forum for Good Governance pledged to support the governorship aspiration of Dr. Mbah in the March 11, 2023 election. The medical doctors, under the auspices of Association of Resident Doctors (ARD), ESUT Teaching Hospital, Parklane, Enugu, led by its President, Dr. Ofonere Chukwunonso, described themselves as medical field marshals saving lives in the country. “We have understudied your manifesto and we know you have a good plan for the people of Enugu State. Please enable JavaScript “We came to align with your vision, and we want to collaborate with you for a better, functional and robust health system in the state,” the president noted. The group further extolled Dr. Mbah’s manifesto and statement of purpose to Enugu people saying it would revolutionize the health sector in the state if implemented to the letter. While restating their commitment to key into the project and spread the excellent message in the manifesto, the doctors said they had  already taken steps to organize free medical outreaches across the 17 local government areas of the state as part of their contribution. “We want to embark on medical outreaches for you in all the 17 council areas in the state. “Parklane serves other states and local government areas, and we want to engage your programmes with our colleagues, clients and the general public and tell them about your plans for them. They’ll further cascade the message to their various communities. “Parklane is a centre for treatment, training and research, innovation and development that will help in the treatment of diseases. Although, we are facing scarcity of doctors as a result of brain drain but we know you’re going to curb it when you come into office,” Chukwunonso added. In a related development, delegates from people with disabilities, on Monday, reiterated their unalloyed support for the ruling party’s gubernatorial candidate, stressing that they’re reaching out to their people across the state to come out en masse and queue behind the PDP at the polls. Speaking at a solidarity visit to the governorship hopeful, Hon. Jude Eze, who led the association, said there’s no alternative to Dr. Mbah’s candidacy in the state. They commended him for his philanthropic gestures which he had been extending to them over the years through his charity organization, the Peter Mbah Foundation, adding that their permanent voter’s cards were intact and would be used to deliver bloc votes for him on the day of election. Reacting to the groups’ solidarity visits, Dr. Mbah said he was excited to hear that the bodies had already taken ownership of the project even as he added his administration would partner with them for the progress and wellbeing of the people.  “I like the ideas of partnership and the programmes you’ve outlined for us. Part of the plan we have in healthcare sector is one that will see Enugu become the epicenter of health services in the country because there are lots of opportunities for us. That’s why we said we want to make Enugu State the healthcare tourism in West Africa,” he said.