From Olanrewaju Lawal, Birnin Kebbi Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Kebbi State Government has sent a save-our-souls to  the Nigeria Army to secure ten villages under attack by bandits  in Dakowasagu, and Bena  in Dakowasagu Local Government Area of  Zuru Emirate. The communities have been deserted as residents have been fleeing the areas for fear of being killed. Governor of the state, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, made the appeal, while hosting the  Genera Officer Commanding (GOC), 8 Division, Sokoto,Major-General Godwin Mutkut,who is also Commander, Task Force of Operation Hadarin Daji ,for Northwest, in his office. Bagudu,who was represented by the Deputy Governor of the state, Col. Samaila Yombe Dabai (retd), told the GOC that the government was  having headache on how to restore security to the affected communities,and return the displaced people to their homes.   He listed  the villages to include: Kurgiye;DanKade,Warkata,Unashi,Akawo all in Dakowasagu axis and Dansadau,Kabaro,Yaumaitaba,Mokuka,Dankolo in Bena axix of Zuru Emirate. According to him,”we have a request to make; Dankowasagu, and Sakaba, are the most targeted areas by bandits. Considering the fact that in the next few weeks,we are going to have General Elections. As I am speaking with you,Warkata, Yaumaitaba,Kabaro,Kurgiye, Unashi,Akawo are empty villages. “You can find people in these villages. I was in Kabaro, to see the situation on ground. These villages are empty. There is  nobody in Mokuka, Dansadau in Bena area.  “They have been displaced, and if they can’t  return  before the  elections, it  mean we were displaced too. “What we want now is that, the Nigerian Army should deploy it’s patrol teams to the areas,so that,if the people are seeing your patrol vehicles,they would be assured of security and this will give them the confidence to return to there  homes.  “This is our greatest headache. We are asking you to help us so that we can gain the confidence of our people”, he said. He added that,the present administration was  ready to give logistics assistance to the  Army in the Course of providing security to the people of the area. Earlier, the GOC,8 Division Sokoto, Major-General Godwin Mutkut informed the Governor that he was in the state to visit his officers and familiarize with them. Mutkut explained that he was also in the state to counsel his officers not to engage in politics,rather,they should be neutral to all political parties.