“To God be the glory for his mercy and love. I don’t know how to thank God for this wonderful testimony he gave to me and my household. I come from a poor family and nobody in my family has ever succeeded, except one man that was also accused of belonging to a secret society. My story is a long one but, to summarize it all, my life was that of a man of sorrow who ended up having from hand to mouth experience. I was known by everyone as a hardworking man but my second name became Near-Success Syndrome. I was always missing the target. Whatever was responsible became the interpretation of some prophets who made merchandize of me. My life and that of my brothers became a laughing stock in my place. We became a reference point of poverty as we lived in a mud house, till God answered us through you. When I contacted you, I thought it was going to be the same experience as others. By the grace of God, you investigated my case and made your recommendation of 10 bottles of your oil. We managed and got the oil and started the prayer. I must confess that my other brother refused to join us because he was a pastor and claimed that he had prayed a lot and only needed faith to believe his prayer…So we continued with our prayer and God answered us. The problem of near-success syndrome vanished and those evil dreams that were responsible for my failures ceased and I got a contract from a friend; this was in April last year. The contract became the turning point in my life. My younger brother was granted visa to travel to Canada for greener pastures, a thing he never dreamed of. This was a big miracle and he is doing well over there; when I finished the contract, I got another bigger one in Port Harcourt. The Lord assisted me and I was blessed and started building my house last year and finished it. A beautiful storey building with a modern paint-house; the house has as well become the talk of the community. God is great and he has answered my prayers for my family. Continue to pray for us…We have moved out of lack through your oil and prayers. God bless you sir.”  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. – Mr. Thaddeus Dev Kalu, devrat_dagupta@yahoo.com       “I am so glad that Jesus loves me and visited me through the oil and prayer you gave to me. Nobody has ever succeeded in our family and it has been a life of battle from generation to generation. God used me for the whole members of my family to bring liberation. Many men of God have been coming, without result. We are a family known for poverty and it has remained so. When I contacted you and you asked us to get some bottles of your oil, which we did and the prayer was done, God started opening our doors. My elder brother got a job and my sister got a big contract in an oil company. Many things started happening in our homes and we have become what God said we should be. I can’t thank you enough, my brother. God be with you and may all you put your hands on prosper, in Jesus’ name.”  – Mr. Livinus N. M., huhaji@yahoo.com “I never liked reading your column for no reason. I never knew that I could find my freedom via what I hated. My apologies, please! My testimony is simple; I was married for 16 years without having any child. My husband was not worried at all and he asked me to go and sleep with other men, if I was too desperate to have my own baby. He meant it, but I thought he was joking initially; I did not obey him as a leader of a big Pentecostal church. I felt he was joking. I never knew he had a serious problem with his manhood at the early state of his life. He had a dream where a young spirit lady used hot iron and pressed his manhood when he resisted her sexual offer and when he woke up it became weak. This happened at the age of 23 in 1988. He married me and was called into the ministry, yet the problem was there. After 10 years of marriage, I discovered that he could not perform at all. This situation made me cry unto God and consequently made me consult many men of God for solution, all to no avail. He suggested that we should adopt a child; I rejected it and trusted God, until one day a man gave a testimony of what your oil did for him in our church and I decided to contact you, after which you asked me to order three bottles of your oil and I obeyed and did the prayers associated with it. God answered my prayer. My husband started performing and the low sperm count disappeared. Today, the Lord has blessed me with a baby boy. Glory be to God.”  – Anonymous. “Dear Prof, I wish to thank God for the oil that I ordered from you. My mother was mad for years and I was accused of using her for my political attainment. My political enemies talked so many things against me; even my wife did not believe me. I was suspected of being in the occult because things worked for me until I got to my present position, which has attracted jealousy and envy both from the national to local levels. When I read your article for the first time in the month of May last year, I decided to give the oil a try, which led to my ordering it. I managed to visit my home and prayed for my mother and got her anointed with the oil I got from you. I strictly followed the instruction you gave and before I ended the prayer, my mother was healed of 10 years of madness. Today, I have been vindicated by God. May God continue to be with you for using you to deliver mankind.” Name and telephone number withheld. Repeated. In His second advent, at dazzling glance, history repeated itself to the extent that the way and manner the King of kings and Lord of lords hitherto hiding in the midst of sheep and goats manifested into the sphere of human nature and caused internal rapture into the physical system of reality at midnight is scientifically unimaginable and inconceivable.   Yes, his advent caused the midnight rapture in the etheric realm into the physical hence there came a shift and wobbling in the spiritual axis closer to the hidden ladder that controls the East, West, North and South of the material universe. The shift brought all spirits, man and woman, good and bad together to work for a time until the period of separation.  We are in the period of separation, the period that the deaf and dumb, including the blind shall fly and swim in-between the hidden treasures of life, the time in which that which belongs to you shall be taken away and be given to another, the time in which two shall be in one bed and one will be taken and the other shall be left in pain and agony. The time that speaking in an unknown tongue shall be upturned in glory. The time that the antichrist shall preach the message of silence and his voice shall be heard in the wireless box. The time that the goat shall not be afraid of engaging in a single cage fight with the lion. The time that the moon shall become humans and the sun sing great doxology to the divine while on its duty. The duty of this time is to reverse the hidden judgement in the dark against the elect and extol divine qualities and proclivity in them. The King of kings has declared that the lost glory and the 12 powers of man in the advanced allegory of higher Edenic life, that was lost, must be restored in dignity, divinity and glory. This hidden glory and revelation hitherto exposed by the born but unborn King of all kings and Lord of all lords shall consummate the end of all mysteries. By the above, numbers shall change, vanity shall embark on endless journey, as seasons shall change and certain natural cosmic actors shall be ephemeral just as titles are artificial that embellishes creation. Humanity shall sing in glory as the elect of the divine shall be in deep contacts with the born but unborn to recreate man and begin all things anew. Then shall all those who mocked and disdained the King of kings, no matter their titles and religious background be used to fertilize the earth in unprecedented manner.     All those who know the King shall consequently come to the supreme knowledge of the ancient that the FATHER, the sole Spiritual Head of the whole universe whose effulgence transcends matter, energy, space and time has fully reconnected his own to Himselve.    Those who shall be afraid of these unfolding catastrophes should by this announcement know that the end has ended in the middle of a new beginning and the voices of great and mighty spirits have become the voice of men.