By Wilfred Eya The General Secretary of Southern Solidarity Movement for Good Governance, Olufemi Babawande, has assured that the Yoruba nation will vote massively for the presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, and his running mate, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State in the forthcoming election. Babawande said the South West will throw its weight behind Atiku/Okowa ticket because the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, has no full grip on the region. In a statement signed by Omolara Williams, Director of Communications, Southern Solidarity Movement for Good Governance and the President, Stanley Edokpolo, Babawande insisted that the battle for the soul of the South West in the February 25 presidential election favours the PDP and that there was no cause for alarm. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “Yorubas would rather play partisan politics than tribal politics because we believe in one Nigeria. We know that unity is very important for progress. So if people think that South West will join the Tinubu band wagon, they are sadly mistaken. I have stated repeatedly my support for Atiku Abubakar because of his antecedents. He is a nationalist, an industrialist, an educationist and a dependable ally,” he said. For Nigeria to move forward, he said, she needs a leader that can bring the people together and not someone ‘who wants us to rubber stamp everything he and his cronies have dictated.’ “And Atiku is that one for me. This is why we continue to mobilise southerners and people all over the country and in the diaspora to vote Atiku-Okowa,” he said. Adding to her husband’s message, Yeyelua Olanike Babawande, the Women Leader of the group said, “My husband is right. Afenifere did not endorse Tinubu because not all Yorubas are in support of his candidacy. South West does not play tribal politics. So people are more focused on the leader that can help reset the nation. PDP has a better programme for Nigerians and we in the South West have always believed in one Nigeria. “You can see this in the large turnout during the campaigns. I am very positive that PDP will do everything good to emerge victorious because the Nigerian people must be delivered from the suffering APC has brought.” The Babawandes hailed Segun Sowunmi, Dele Momodu, and other South West leaders for their loyalty to the Nigerian cause and the PDP. “It is noteworthy to appreciate our leaders for mobilising strongly for Atiku-Okowa and the PDP. We are impressed by the good work demonstrated by Governor Ademola Adeleke, Dele Momodu, Oladipupo Adebutu, Segun Showunmi, Olagunsoye Oyinlola, Dr Gbola Adetunji and other Yoruba who are promoting detribalised politics, which is healthy for a better Nigeria.”