•Dismisses opinion polls tipping LP candidate to win From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja  The All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) has declared that its presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, has a better track record as performer and innovator than his counterparts in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Labour Party (LP) to win this weekend’s presidential poll. The PCC spoke at a press conference in Abuja, yesterday, declaring that the ruling party and its candidate were ready for the poll. Special Adviser on Media and Strategic Communication, Dele Alake, who read the speech said Tinubu ran a good campaign worthy enough to win the election. He expressed confidence that victory was certain for the APC candidate.  He said Nigerians would elect Tinubu as next president for clearly standing apart from the pack and working hard to earn the trophy. “In the last six months, we have conducted a good campaign. Our candidates have travelled round all the 36 states, and even made return trip to many states for additional engagements. Our message of Renewed Hope and better future have resonated well with Nigerians who are prepared to entrust the future of our country to the capable and steady hands of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Senator Kashim Shettima with their votes on Saturday, February 25.  Our message has been that the candidates in their first opportunity to govern their states of Lagos and Borno, left good impressions about themselves with their track records as performers and innovators. We cannot say the same of their competitors for power,” Alake said. He said  the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the armed forces, especially the police, have all declared their preparedness and readiness to ensure a free, fair and credible election. “APC as a party and our campaign council are ready for the election too. We have worked so hard since INEC declared campaign open for presidential and National Assembly positions on September 28, 2022. We are certain of victory because Nigerians will elect Asiwaju Tinubu as the next President of Nigeria, for, he clearly stands apart from the pack and has worked so much to earn the  trophy. ”  He dismissed the various polls that tipped the LP candidate to win the election as cocktails of nebulous opinion polls. “We are sure many of you must have seen all manner of opinion polls in the last few weeks that gave victory in the coming election to the LP candidate. These polls have oscillated between the sublime and the most ridiculous,” it said.