…As new President sets 3- point agenda  By Henry Uche  The Nigerian Institute of Management (Chartered) has renewed its commitment to contribute its quota to issues of national interest.  At the investiture of the 24th president & Chairman of Council, the new president,  Mrs. Christiana Atako, while delivering her inaugural speech said it has become necessary for professional Institutes to always synergize with government at all levels in order to drive the aggregates of economic roadmap and development through strategic contribution to national awakening.  NIMs helmsman also unveiled its three strategic agenda codenamed 3Rs: Reengineering, Revitalizing the NIM brand and Restoration of all lost glory and grounds of NIM.  “Much has been given to us and much is expected from us. We must not let the light of management excellence handed over to us this day to get extinguished on our watch.  “Reengineering will position the Institute to take up its leadership authority and mandate to determine the standard of knowledge and skills required by professional managers as well as regulate and control the management practice in all its spheres and ramifications. In this instance, this Council will focus on turning around the Institute’s systems, structure, processes, procedures, manpower and general ways of doing things,”  Atako maintained that since the Institute is guided by very strong values which include integrity, transparency, responsibility, accountability, equity, fairness, efficiency and effectiveness, it would leave no stone unturned to ensure that it uphold such values.  “Every professional manager is expected to internalize these values and make them a way of life. We need a cream of leaders who are selfless in service and who find and employ more effective and more economical ways of getting things done.  “Restoration in terms of dignity, flagship position, values, hope, confidence, trust, vision of the founding fathers will be the end result of our total effort,”  She the Institute had set a 5-year strategic growth plan to boost the Institute’s financial base as well as have a sense of financial direction and set targets. This according to her would promote continuity in the Institute’s governance and help in the assessment of the achievements of successive leadership.  She assured that NIM would work to strengthen its relationship with other professional bodies as well as the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). The Institute will work closely with as many other Professional Bodies as possible to deepen relationship in the bid to deepen the contributions of the industry to the economy and national growth.  “We will also be working to revive the strategic partnership between the Institute and the National Youth Service Corps. Under this arrangement, the Institute trains the nation’s youths during their service year, for six months, in the area of entrepreneurship with the aim of making them self-sufficient and self-reliant at the end of their service year instead of searching endlessly for almost non-existent white-collar jobs.  “We have set machinery in motion to repackage, rejuvenate and turnaround the NIM-NYSC programme for the benefit of the nation’s teeming youths. Last year, the Institute renewed, for another five years, the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) covering the programme with the National Youth Service Corps. We are hopeful that this development will give verve to the drive to jumpstart the programme going forward.  In an address, the guest speaker, Ije Jidenma who is the President & Chairman of Council, Institute of Directors (IOD) admonished NIM’s president to remain firm and ensure that her character was not contaminated.  “You must remain firm, focused and make sure your name is remembered for good in the future,” she charged.  Pix 1: L – R: Mr. Akin Iroko, Administrator, NIM; Mrs. Margaret Adeleke, past President, NIM; Dr. (Mrs.) Christiana Atako, President / Chairman of Council, NIM and Mr. Akinbayo Adenubi, past President, NIM, at the investiture of Atako.