From Okey Sampson, Umuahia Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Chief of Staff (CoS) to Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, Okey Ahiwe, has emerged winner of the rerun governorship primary of the Abia People’s Democratic Party (PDP) held at the Umuahia Township Stadium on Saturday. The rerun primary was a result of the death of Prof Uche Ikonne, the PDP flagbearer in the March 9 governorship election, on January 25. Following Ikonne’s death, the PDP caucus in Abia met and micro-zoned the position to Isiala Ngwa North, the home Local Government of the late Ikonne. In the primary conducted Saturday, Ahiwe emerged winner with 469 votes out of the 516 votes cast. Announcing the result, the Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, who was the PDP returning officer, disclosed that Ahaiwe came first with 469 votes, while the deputy governor, Ude Oko Chukwu came a distant second with 12 votes. Others according to Obaseki were, Mayor Lucky Igbokwe, 12 votes; Hon. Sampson Orji, 11 votes, while invalid votes were 12. Three aspirants, Bob Ogu, Chief Eric Opah and Mrs Ezinwanyi Jonah had earlier stepped down for Ahiwe. Obaseki had before the commencement of voting, noted that Abia has remained a PDP state, and urged the party members to help in strengthening democracy in the party by ensuring a smooth and transparent process of choosing the flagbearer of the party in the state. Obaseki promised that the party would rally around whoever the delegates chose as the party’s governorship candidate. State chairman of the party, Allwell Asiforo Okere while describing the re-run as special, hoped it would be credible. Okere described the aspirants as credible people, adding that the party was happy that they fielded eminently and qualified aspirants. With the stepping down of three aspirants who are majorly from Isiala Ngwa North, five others including; Okey Ahiwe, Ude Oko Chukwu, Senator Emma Nwaka, Hon. Sampson Orji and Mayor Lucky Igbokwe jostled for the vacant governorship position. Observers from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) led by the electoral body’s national commissioner, Festus Okoye were present to monitor the process. In his acceptance speech, Ahiwe while stating there was no victor no vanquished, thanked the delegates and leaders of the party for consulting widely. He added that the decision of the party to zone the governorship ticket to Isiala Ngwa North would further strengthen the unity of the party and expressed confidence that PDP will win the governorship seat in the state.