•As Atiku tells Tinubu to accept fate, stop lamenting From Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said it was sure of victory for Atiku Abubakar, its presidential candidate. The party  in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, claimed preliminary reports of results coming in from across the states and the FCT indicate Atiku was already coasting to victory. It, however, called on the Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC) to ensure the results are collated  transparently to  guarantee all votes count and that the will of the people is respected. Ologunagba claimed Atiku is securing the highest number of valid votes cast and statutory 25 per cent in at least two third of the states of the federation to ultimately brace the tape on the first ballot. “Our party appreciates Nigerians from across the country for putting their avowed solidarity and support for Atiku Abubakar into action by coming out en-masse to give their votes to the PDP, irrespective of ethnicity, creed, age and even political affiliations. “From preliminary results, it is clear that Atiku Abubakar’s message of hope, unity, security and rebuilding of our nation has been positively received by Nigerians who are eager to embrace a new era under a purposeful leadership which the PDP and Atiku Abubakar embody.”The PDP assures Nigerians that the hope which Atiku Abubakar symbolizes as well as the very onerous task of unifying and returning our country to the path of stability, national cohesion and economic prosperity will soon begin.” Meanwhile, the Atiku/Okowa Campaign Organisation has admonished  the Tinubu/Shettima Campaign to stop lamenting,  and accept its fate in the just concluded presidential poll. A statement by its spokesperson, Kola Ologbondiyan, accused the Tinubu/ Shettima campaign of allegedly posting fabricated stories against the opposition. “Such wretched shenanigan and fixation on the PDP by the Tinubu/Shettima campaign only exposes Tinubu’s nerviness in conviction of looming defeat by the Presidential Candidate of the PDP, Atiku Abubakar. Apparently rattled by their feared damaging verdict of the ballot box against its Candidate, the Tinubu/Shettima Campaign is now desperate to create confusion by publishing and circulating fake election results; a pathetic ploy that will fail to fly in the face of real results coming from polling units across the country. “The Tinubu/Shettima Campaign should come to terms with the decision by Nigerians to use their vote to recompense the APC for the excruciating hardship, anguish and pain it inflicted on our nation in the last seven and half years. Our campaign therefore seriously frowns at the wicked deployment of the front page of newspaper believably to be owned by Senator Tinubu to contrive a wholesomely false narrative to deceive Nigerians. “Such is not only a scandalous abuse of the media but also a calculated attempt to subvert our democratic system and cause confusion in the polity; a scheme which must be condemned by all. The Atiku/Okowa Campaign urges Nigerians to remain calm but alert in resisting the devastated APC and the Tinubu/Shettima Campaign which is already suffering from pre-defeat trauma.”