By Omotunde Alawode Canada-based Nigerian licensed immigration advisor and convener of the Leadership Conference, Edmonton, Canada, Dr. Lina Mba, has said that mentoring of teenage girls who dropped out of school due to pregnancy would form the thrust of this year’s conference holding in Edmonton in August. She said proceeds from the conference would be used to procure equipment and offer training opportunities to develop skills that will fetch the girls revenue, as well as contribute to local economy. Dr. Mba, who spoke online, said: “Some proceeds of the forthcoming event will go to support our Girl Child Project. We are currently mentoring teenage girls that dropped out of school due to pregnancy and are having challenges going back to school. These proceeds will help them get equipped with equipment and training to develop a skill that can turn into a source of revenue and contribute to their local economy.” She recalled that mental health awareness among people in Black communities was the theme of last year’s edition because there was a high incidence of depression and suicide in Black communities in Canada. She noted that creating a platform to spread awareness was important because, “We want to save people and let them know that things will be okay in due time and suicide is not an option.” According to her, “Many people in the Black community are suffering in silence because they are shamed and mocked when they discuss their mental health challenges. We need to be able to have these difficult conversations to thrive as a community.” Dr. Mba disclosed that this year’s leadership conference, which holds on August 26 and will be streamed live, will attract top CEOs and potential investors from all over the world. “We will have some Canadian politicians in attendance. Awards will be given to a select few,” she added. On the quality of speakers at last year’s conference, Dr. Mba said there were different speakers, including Mr. Justin Brittany and Mr. Scott, who were white. She stated that mental health was not discussed in Black communities and having Black dignitaries facilitate the event was important as it provided reliability. Also among the facilitators at last year’s event were Mrs. Funky Banjoko, the first black councillor in the city of Fort McMurray, Mrs. Sochi Ogbonna, who was appointed by the government of Alberta as co-chair of the Alberta Anti-Racism Advisory Council, and Minister K.C. Madu, who has excelled in Canadian politics.