From Okey Sampson, Umuahia Senator Orji Uzor Kalu’s Campaign Organization (KCO) has expressed optimism that the Senate Chief Whip would win the February 25 National Assembly election in Abia North Senatotrial District. KCO’s spokesperson, Sunny Idika, who disclosed this, said the organization’s optimism was hinged on the high scorecard the people of Abia North Senatotrial District have given Kalu in infrastructural development and overall quality representation. Idika said Kalu is committed to doing more for the people if re-elected in 2023, stating that the zone is now the construction site of Abia State. “Kalu is striving hard to put smiles on the faces of his constituents by attracting key projects to Abia North Senatorial District and we are happy the people are appreciating that. Today, Abia North is witnessing massive Infrastructural development that had not been seen since Kalu left office as the Govenor of Abia North,” Idika said. “It is incontrovertible that Senator Orji Uzor Kalu has scored very high marks in the area of infrastructure for the betterment and wellbeing of all. And the good thing is that our people shall benefit more if he is re-elected in 2023”. He said the people of Abia North Senatorial District would massively re-elect Kalu for more dividends of democracy, noting that Kalu remains the best Senator in the history of the zone. “From Nneato in Umunneochi Local Government Area to Isu in Arochukwu Local Government Area, the story is the same. For Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, it is the people first. He is always thinking about his people first. What they will get or what will put smiles on their faces. What you’re seeing here is the same story in Item, Uzoakoli, Alayi, Nkporo, Abiriba, Nneato, Uturu, Ohafia, Arochukwu and so many others. “Senator Orji Uzor Kalu is enjoying massive support across the district and by the grace of Almighty God, we are confident of his re-election. It is going to be a landslide victory because he has done very well. “He has over 68 road projects across the Senatorial District to his credit. If you go to Abia South and Central, Senator Kalu has projects in those areas too. You cannot drop your best for a mediocre. Are people are not naive. Even his opponents are in agreement that he has performed excellently well and they may end up voting for him,” Idika said.