From Molly Kilete, Abuja  The Police Service Commission (PSC) has announced the appointment of National, Zonal and State Coordinators for the 36 states and Abuja, to monitor the conduct of police officers in the forthcoming general elections in the country. The Commission also warned police officers on election duties to conduct themselves with the laid down rules and regulations as it would not hesitate to sanction anyone found wanting in misconduct. PSC Head, Press and Public Relations, Ikechukwu Ani, who made the disclosure, said the Commission has approved over 360 personnel to monitor the conduct of police officers on election duties across the country. Ani, in a statement, said: “As the nation counts down to the 2023 general elections, the Police Service Commission, the Federal Executive Body constitutionally empowered to discipline police officers except the Inspector General of Police, among other responsibilities, has appointed National, Zonal and State Coordinators for the exercise. The Commission has already approved the participation of over 360 of its staff to depart for the 36 states of the federation, to monitor the conduct of police officers on election duties.  The Commission warns that it will sanction any police officer involved in any form of misconduct before, during or immediately after the elections as it is determined to ensure that policemen on election duties must conduct themselves within the approved rules and regulations.  Dedicated telephone numbers for the public to report misconduct or exemplary behaviour of police officers on duty have been provided to assist Nigerians play a major role in enthroning civil participation in election policing. Acting Chairman of the Commission, Justice Clara Bata Ogunbiyi, will be leading the Commission’s strong delegation as the National Coordinator and assisted by the Honourable Commissioners representing the six geo-political zones as Zonal Coordinators.  The Permanent Secretary and Secretary to the Commission, Dr. Ifeoma Adaora Anyanwutaku, will serve as the Deputy National Coordinator. The Commission, last Wednesday, held a training programme for State Coordinators and also organised a two-day induction course for staff monitors. The Commission’s monitors will benchmark police conduct during the elections with the approved standard operational guidelines for police conduct.