The Amayanabo of Nembe, His Eminence, King Edmund Maduabebe Daukoru Mingi XIII, has supervised the signing of a peace accord among political parties and candidates in Nembe Kingdom. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Nembe Kingdom comprises of two local government areas, Nembe and Brass with one Senatorial seat, one House of Representatives seat and six House of Assembly seats. Nembe had been rocked by violence in previous election cycles, with attacks in Brass, Nembe Ogbolomabiri and Opu Nembe, leaving several people dead, many injured and property worth several million destroyed. To forestall a reoccurrence of the orgy of violence, King Daukoru ensured the signing of the peace accord which took place in Nembe with all the traditional apparatus and had in attendance the Council of Chiefs and those contesting for the elections. Those in attendance include incumbent Senator, Bayelsa East, Biobarakuma Degi- Eremienyo (APC) and his challenger from the PDP, Chief Sunday Benson Agadaga. Also in attendance were the incumbent House of Representatives member representing Brass/Nembe Constituency, Hon Israel Sunny- Goli (APC) and his challenger, Hon Maria Ebikake( PDP). Others are Hon Ebi Ben Ololo( PDP), representing Brass Constituency 1, Chief Edward Irigha- Brigidi (APC), Nembe 2 and Chief Douglas Awdudu( APC), Nembe 3, Hon Timi Agala Omubo(APC), Brass 2, Hon Daniel Charles( PDP), Brass 1, Rt Hon Abraham Ngobere( PDP) Brass 3. Also in attendance are Sawari Kumosuoyo Ayebaye (PDP), Chief Alaibo West( PDP), and Mr Austin Adigio( PDP). HRM Daukoru sued for peace before, during and after the election warning that the Nembe Kingdom would not tolerate violence in any form. He enjoined the candidates to campaign without rancour and ensure they rein in their supporters not to engage in any form of violence. The candidates, who took turns to talk, pledged to abide by the peace accord to guarantee peaceful elections. A Chief in Nembe, Chief Nengi James in an interview said the peace accord is to enthrone sanity in the electoral process in the Nembe Kingdom. “The peace accord is to make sure there is no violence before, during and after the elections. It is to tell the candidates, the political parties and their supporters that the Nembe Kingdom would not tolerate violence in the 2023 elections. People should be allowed to vote without violence. That is the essence of the peace accord. It is to engender peace,” he said.