From Scholastica Onyeka, Makurdi The Abuja sector of the Student Christian Movement, (SCM), has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure that the forthcoming elections are conducted in a free and fair manner and that it meets international best standards for a truly democratic process.  This is as it has urged all political parties participating in the election to strictly abide by the tenets of agreement they signed on Thursday, of September 29, 2022.  Its President, Mr Basene Harcourt-Whyte, made this call while briefing newsmen on the World Student Christian Federation (WSCF) activities for 2023 christened “Federation Week.”  Harcourt-Whyte said the briefing was also intended to make known the group’s stance on some issues relating to good governance and entrenchment of enduring democratic culture in Nigeria.   “That peace accord initiated by the Nigerian Peace Committee (NPC) led by former Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalam Abubakar and Bishop Matthew Kukah should not be trampled upon. Leaders of these parties must proactively encourage their supporters to stay away from violence and doing nothing to incite it before, during and after the elections. We say it loud and clear here “No to violence,” he said. He said  SCM was strongly against all forms of vote buying, under-age voting and other detrimental anti-democratic practices that would mar the outcomes of these elections. “We sincerely believe that good governance, economic prosperity and acceptable civic responsibility are all products of democratic processes that run on the wheels of transparency, fairness and justice.  We in SCM strongly believe that Nigeria is beginning a glorious journey with the 2023 elections and we welcome all ideas and genuine criticisms that are designed to keep us on a forward move.”  Harcourt-Whyte explained the SCM of Nigeria was an affiliate of WSCF which uses the third week of every year to create awareness within the society and the church on her work across her more than 100-member countries around the world.  He said  this year’s event comes up with the 128 years anniversary celebrations of the WSCF work among students and young people and 83 years of similar operations 11in Nigeria with the theme for this year’s event “Civic Responsibility And Good Governance” and comes uniquely apt and timely for those in Nigeria considering the forthcoming elections both in this February and March 2023.