From Okwe Obi, Abuja Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The ambience was electrifying as the creme de la creme in the entertainment, political and diplomatic world graced the premiere of ‘The Real Housewives of Abuja,’ in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), by Showmax Nigeria. Some of notable guests included the South African High Commissioner to Nigeria, Thami Mseleku; ex-BBNaija housemate, Jackie B; entrepreneur and influencer Oby Ohakim; and actress Ivie Okujaye among others. It was hosted by Media Personality and Content Creator, Hawa Magaji. The Real Housewives of Abuja which is set to debut on Showmax February 17, 2023, portrays the luxurious lives of six influential women in Abuja – Arafa, Comfort Booth, OJ Posharella, Princess Jecoco, Samantha Homossany and Tutupie as they navigate their opulence, relationships, family and businesses in the Seat of Power. In his address, General Manager, Showmax Nigeria, Opeoluwa Filani, said he was excited, adding that the movie which the second instalment of NBC’s The Real Housewives Franchise in Nigeria. “We are thrilled to introduce our latest Showmax Original, The Real Housewives of Abuja, which is the second installment of NBC’s The Real Housewives Franchise in Nigeria. “At Showmax, we pride ourselves on delivering the best entertainment to our viewers, and this show isn’t any different. The fans are definitely in for a treat and we cannot wait for everyone to see it.” The Producer of RHOAbuja and Creative Director of Delmedia Productions, Delmwa Deshi-Kura spoke on the work that was put into producing the show. According to her, “it took a village to make the Real Housewives of Abuja. In casting for the show, we ensured to put together the best cast that will deliver the drama and authenticity that this franchise has come to be known for, as well as bring their individual fabulousness into the show. And I daresay they delivered on all fronts. “RHOAbuja is the latest in Showmax’s slate of original content for the year. The show will premiere exclusively on the streaming platform on the 17th of February, with a new episode dropping every week.”