JOE EFFIONG, UYO Akwa Ibom State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Comrade Ini Ememobong as described the former special assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on national assembly matters (senate), Senator Ita Enang as an errand boy of the federal government on anti-people matters, Ememobong has also lamented that Enang, a 3-term House of Reps member, a one term Senator, a former presidential aide on national assembly mattress, and later, on NDDC matters, has of recent been inflicted with vernal diarrhea making him a national embarrassment to Akwa Ibom. The commissioner was reacting to a recent press statement made by Enang to the effect that Akwa Ibom State governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel has instructed the traditional rulers of communities along Calabar Itu Road, to chase away contractors over payment of compensation for the reconstruction of the road. Sen Enang had said: “At the instance of Governor Udom Emmanuel, he asked the Paramount Rulers and other traditional rulers to instigate the communities not to allow the road to be done. “We had asked the state government to help pay compensation to that area awarded by NNPC as part of their contribution to the realization of that road and since all the buildings were approved by your state government please pay compensation while we do the road. “But because it is a PDP led state, they don’t want me FG to have credit for the road because the FG is APC and not just that they are also instigating the communities. “The traditional rulers who are speaking against the FG on this road are simply agents of Akwa Ibom State Government frustrating this project but I will not join words with them because they are who they are and because I am a titled chief; but I will take steps to ensure that the compensation is paid.” . Ememobong in his reaction said: “If Sen. Ita Enang said so then it’s most unfortunate and an insult to the traditional institution. ” How can he say that traditional rulers are being instigated? Don’t their majesties have a mind of their own? And are they not there to defend the interests of their people? Why should the Federal Government refuse to pay compensation? Was it not captured in the contract? Don’t they pay compensation in other places? “Ita is becoming uncontrollably garrulous and wants to sell his own people and this is very embarrassing. Whenever oppressive campaigns are to be mounted by the FG, he seems to readily offer himself as the poster boy. “Recall his constant feature in the cases leading to the ASUU emasculative judgement and now trying to cheat people of his own federal constituency. He, as a lawyer, knows or should know the principle of compensation, which must be paid in advance to allow the victim an opportunity to relocate and restart his life. So where does he want the people affected to go to or if their sources of livelihood has been affected, how do they restart their lives?” The commissioner queried.