FAME Foundation and Laureus Sport partnership has officially commenced with the TRAIN THE TRAINERS WORKSHOP 2023. The partnership, which started in January, formally began following the proper procedure and preparation. FAME Foundation entered into a one-year partnership with Laureus Sport for Good, to achieve a common goal, using the power of sports for change under the Play it Dream it initiative of the organisation. Play it Dream it Initiative is aimed at using sports as a tool for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, improving access to quality and affordable education, reducing early marriage, promote gender equality and sports participation, and contribute to the reduction in inequalities among children and young adults in Nigeria. Laureus Sports for Good, a London based Not-for-profit and global organisation, celebrates sporting excellence and uses the power of sport to transform the lives of children and young people around the world. The training will enable all trainers, volunteers and coordinators to have direct knowledge on the information of the upcoming activities held under the Play it Dream it Initiative. It aims to discuss, instruct and also inform all participant about the necessity of each programme and how it is expected to be carried out. The training took place on February 20, 2023 at the FAME Foundation Hub. The training focused on these topics such as tactics of coaching children in sports in digital era, sports as a sustainable advocacy tool and tips for being a trainer.  “Aside the fact that sport is a unifier, it also acts a voice to everyone despite the differences in ideas, tribe, race, or ethnicity” says Ms Aderonke Ogunleye-Bello. Ms. Ogunleye Bello also took the liberty to inform all participant about the aim of the partnership of both organizations and what is planned to achieve at the end of the partnership. This training serves as a bonding experience for the trainer, volunteers, and organisers by giving everyone the chance to express their opinions and ask questions about any aspects of the activity that they may not fully understand.