From Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing, has said that heads of political parties in the country must commit to respect the outcome of the forthcoming elections. Laing who briefed journalists in Abuja ahead of the elections, also asked the head of political parties to signal the respect of the outcome of the vote to all their supporters. The British envoy stated that it is becoming more apparent that the election in Nigeria is really important, not just to Nigerian citizens, but Africa and the world. Laing however said that in the West African region, democratic backsliding has been witnessed. She added that the world’s eyes will be on Nigeria, out of Nigeria, saying that what happens in Nigeria will send a very strong signal to the rest of the world. Laing recalled that in the run up to the forthcoming election, the United Kingdom has continued to invest in trying to create better conditions for a credible, free and fair and secured election. Laing further said the United Kingdom tried to play its part and has worked very closely with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and with the civil society to ensure that they were of faithful purpose. She added that it was crucial that on February 25th and March 11th, the election days, everyone feels that they can get out and exercise their democratic right to vote freely, fairly without intimidation. “So, that means the heads of the political parties in particular, must commit to respect the outcome of the vote and signal that to all of their supporters,” Laing said. Speaking further, Laing admonished the political parties that if they are going to contest anything arising from any dispute, they should go through the judicial process and not through any violence. She stated that the Peace Accord which was signed on the 29th of September, 2022, was very important and was very pleased to say that there will be a second signing on February 23rd and she will be there representing the United Kingdom. Laing assured that the United Kingdom remains absolutely in step with Nigeria as she continues on her democratic journey. Asked if the United Kingdom was worried about the conduct of the election, Laing noted that there is a difficult backdrop to the forthcoming election. She however said that the United Kingdom is very confident that INEC has prepared early and it is in good shape. On possible sactions for those undermining democracy in the country who are British citizens, Laing said that the United Kingdom will be looking out for any attempt to subvert the democratic process. “And if it is brought to our attention of where and where directly, that there are people, for example, inciting violence, whipping up hate speech or indeed, actually conducting violent acts, we can and we will use our visa policy to restrict individuals’ ability to enter Nigeria. We also have another too which is human rights sanction,” Laing stated.