.As group wants ex-Lagos gov to apologise  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Okwe Obi, Abuja Gale of condemnations have trailed the comments made by the presidential Candidate of the All Progressives Congress APC Bola Ahmed Tinubu against Akwa Ibom Governor, Emmanuel Udom. Tinubu, while in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital campaigning had said if not that he was begged, he would have sent him packing by putting “Lizard, and pigeon and scorpion”, in the home of Udom in Lagos State whom he said was his neighbour, for backing Atiku Abubakar, standard bearer of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). But a group known as Concerned Citizens of Akwa Ibom State, at a press briefing yesterday in Abuja, berated Tinubu for making what it called ‘sarcastic, instigating, and life threatening’ remarks. The group’s Convener, Isikong Isong, argued that an elder statesman in the mold of Tinubu should not be spewing such remarks, capable of setting the country ablaze. He added that the former Lagos State governor should have displayed decorum after governor Udom made available logistical provisions and approved the use of the state-owned International stadium for a hitch-free campaign. He said: “On January 30, 2023, Akwa-Ibom people and the Nigeria public, watched and listened in utter dismay and disappointment, the seditious, inflammatory and malicious statement made by the Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Sen. Ahmed Bola Tinubu against the peace loving Governor of Akwa-lbom State, Mr. Udom Gabriel Emmanuel at Uyo during the APC Presidential Campaign.  “We are informed that the Government of Akwa-Ibom State, on receipt of notice of APC presidential campaign tour to the state, reportedly made all the necessary logistical provisions available, and without delay, approved the use of the state-owned International stadium as a responsive and responsible Government for a hitch-free and conducive campaign activities. “We have waited in calm to see whether APC, as a party or it’s Presidential Candidate will withdraw this unfortunate outburst and let peace reign but unfortunately, up to the time of this press conference, nothing to show remorse has happened which has compelled this press conference.  “We are also aware and let it be on record that all the Presidential Candidates in the forth coming election signed a peace accord to conduct themselves peaceably, honourably and guard against unwarranted, inciting and provocative utterances capable of eroding and causing a rancorous elections come February, 2023.  “However, in total disregard to this noble route chosen by all the Presidential Candidates to run an issue base campaign devoid of calumny, vituperations, name calling and abusive tendencies, Sen. Tinubu throw caution to the wind by throwing unwarranted and provocative tantrums and threats to the person and personality of a sitting Governor, in his State and without any iota of regret fear or favour.  “This was done in the most obnoxious, sarcastic, anachronistic and undemocratic manner.  “For the avoidance of doubt Sen. Bola Tinubu in his outburst in Uyo stated and I quote, ‘that boy wey dey bring Atiku here, wey call himself governor. Tell him, enough is enough. Tell him enough is a enough. He lives in my backyard in Lagos, if not because we are one, I for drive him home. If not because you beg me, I for just put Lizard, and pigeon and scorpion there.’ “How sarcastic, instigating, and life threatening. In our clime sending Lizard, and pigeon and scorpion can denote something more serious as it is ordinarily seen as this are regarded as fetish items. What will this animals do to any man if not to harm considering the fact they not pet animals.” Aside hailing Udom, who is the he Director General of the PDP presidential campaign council for not dishing out unsavory remarks on Tinubu, he asked the APC national leader to apologise to the governor. “Commendably, we are deeply impressed by the statesmanship disposition and political maturity exhibited by the sitting Governor of Akwa-Ibom State, a man of God and peace, Deacon Udom Emmanuel in the face of this provocation.  “Worthy of commendation is also the good and peace-loving people of Akwa-Ibom State who have not taken the laws into their hands physically attacking this condemnable attitude.  “It is our prayer and wish that this Country shall return to its good old days where respect to constituted authority is restored.  “We, as concerned Nigerians, arising from our biannual general meeting today, vehemently condemn in totality, this unpatriotic, unconscionable democratic, sarcastic, offensive and abusive act on the sitting Governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel, and in solidarity with millions of the good people and peace loving indigenes of Akwa Ibom in particular and Nigerian public in general demand an apology from Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the withdrawal of that unprintable comment for the sake of unity and peace for our dear country,” he said.