Satisfied with the development trajectory of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi’s administration in Enugu State and Enugu North senatorial district, particularly in the university town of Nsukka, the people of Echara Nsukka Autonomous Community on Monday said that they were grateful to Governor Ugwuanyi for being major beneficiaries of his good works in terms of infrastructure and empowerment. The people stated that Ugwuanyi, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for Enugu North senatorial district, deserves their commendation and overwhelming votes at the poll for being the only leader from Nsukka zone who brought meaningful developments to the area in terms of critical infrastructure and human capital development. The people said Governor Ugwuanyi as a just and selfless leader in transforming Nsukka zone in keeping with his inaugural address did not concentrate developments in his Udenu Local Government Area but out of his passion and commitment for rapid development of Enugu North Senatorial District for socio-economic expansion chose to concentrate most transformational projects in the university town of Nsukka. They frowned at what they described as conspiracy of a few elites in Nsukka to undermine the good works and genuine intention of Governor Ugwuanyi for the people of the district, stressing that the conspiracy cannot eliminate the fact that the governor has done a lot for Nsukka people. Speaking when Governor Ugwuanyi visited the traditional ruler of Echara Nsukka Autonomous Community, Igwe Christopher Ezugwu, at his palace, where the grateful people of the community including the elders, women and stakeholders endorsed the governor for Senate and gave him a traditional blessing, the Commissioner for Local Government Affairs and a seasoned political gladiator, Peter Okonkwo, said that Governor Ugwuanyi “holds the oat of justice against the Nsukka elites conspiring against his good works.” Okonkwo revealed that “there is a conspiracy of the elites, but the conspiracy cannot eliminate fact,” saying: “People of Nsukka, this man (Ugwuanyi) here God has brought to us to govern us has done for Nsukka what have not been done before since the history of democracy. The only time we saw something like that was when Zik (Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe) brought the University of Nigeria to Nsukka. What this man has done for Nsukka, he never did for his people in Orba and Udenu Local Government Area. “The road (dual carriageway) constructed from Opi down to Nsukka was done by RCC. RCC did not construct any single road in his place in Orba. RCC has never done any road in Nigeria except the ones awarded by the Federal Government, but he (Ugwuanyi) used it for Nsukka. The other road from Obechara was done by Arab Contractors and no other road in the state was done by Arab Contractors except the one done in Nsukka land, in Echara land. Let’s also take the New Anglican Road for instance, we suffered flood on the road for over 20 years. There was no solution until he (Ugwuanyi) intervened. After seeing the things and roads he constructed in Nsukka land which everyone of us ply today, just know that you have benefited and Nsukka land has also benefited. “Your Excellency, the people gathered here today are organic people from their different homes; these are the true voters. Echara is indebted to you, Your Excellency and we are going to pay you back in folds. What we are doing now is door-to-door campaign. Rally is just for public show. We have bulk votes and we will deliver you and other PDP candidates in the state. Your Excellency, Echara Community is solidly behind you.” Other speakers were the host, Igwe Ezugwu; councilor of Nkpunanaw Ward, Dickson Tochukwu Ezeah; President General of Echara Town Union, George Okonkwo; leader of Echara Youth Association, Onyekachi Ezema; PDP Zonal Woman Leader, Enugu North Senatorial District, Mrs. Esther Nnenna Agu Nwangwu and Emmanuel Onyebuchi Asogwa.  They all spoke in the same vein, appreciating Governor Ugwuanyi for the network of roads his administration constructed in Nsukka town which their community benefited largely from and other numerous development projects in Nsukka zone such as the establishment of the State University of Medical and Applied Sciences (SUMAS), Igbo-Eno.