From Sola Ojo, Kaduna The Director General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brigadier General Yusha’u Dogara Ahmed at the weekend told corps members to avoid political arguments before, during, and after the February 25 and March 11 elections in the country. The senior army officer, who resumed office as the 22nd DG of the largest youth mobilisation organisation in Nigeria on Monday, January 30, made the call when he paid his maiden visit to corps members and staff of the scheme who are currently observing the 2023 batch ‘A’ (stream I) orientation camp at Government College, Kurmi Marshi, Kaduna North local government, Kaduna State. He told corps members, especially those that will be engaged by the Independent National Electoral Commission as ad-hoc staff to remain unbiased electoral officers in line with the provision of the amended 2022 electoral laws. The NYSC Chief Executive also advised the Corps Members to ensure that they leave good legacies in their place of primary assignments and host communities. The Newman also used the opportunity to visit the 44 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital, Kaduna, where three Corps members who were involved in an auto crash while in transit to their state of deployment (from Yobe to Qnambra) are currently receiving treatment. He also warned corps members against posting their grievances on social media, urging them to rather forward such complaints to the management of the scheme for possible amicable resolutions just as he assured them of the commitment of his administration to prioritise their welfare and security. Demonstrating his commitment to corps welfare, the number one corps member gifted a Cow to the corps members and two hundred plastic chairs, and ten standing fans to the scheme’s office in the state. Welcoming the August visitor to the temporary orientation camp earlier, the state Coordinator, Mr. Agbor Indoma Obim, congratulated him on his appointment just as he prayed for him to have the best leadership experience. The Coordinator was also quick to intimate his new principal of some of the challenges confronting the orientation camp which include the high cost of goods and services, hike in fuel price, and inadequate accommodation among others.