From Gyang Bere, Jos Wife of the former Vice President and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Hajiya Titi Amina Abubakar, has expressed gratitude to Plateau people for standing firmly with the PDP. Titi Abubakar disclosed this in Jos during an engagement with Plateau women ahead of the February 25 presidential election and commiserated with the state over the recent accident that claimed the lives of PDP supporters who were returning from Plateau Central PDP rally. She was received in the state by the wife of the PDP governorship candidate, Mrs. Helen Caleb Mutfwang; Deputy Governorship candidate, Hon. Josephine Piyo, and former Minister of Water Resources, Hon. Sarah Ochekpe among others. They paid a courtesy call on the wife of the former Governor of Plateau State, Ngo Talatu Jang, where she was warmly received and prayers for victory offered ahead of the elections. Titi Abubakar also paid a courtesy call on the Gbong Gwom Jos, Da Jacob Gyang Buba; the royal father offered her soothing words of welcome. Buba encouraged all politicians, especially mothers to lend their voice and ensure that the political atmosphere remained peaceful and free of tension. The Plateau State governorship candidate, Barr. Caleb Mutfwang, reassured that the state is home to PDP, where no party’s presidential candidate had ever lost election since 1999. Mutfwang noted that Plateau women had shown the PDP, great support ahead of the 2023 election because of the choice of a female deputy governorship candidate. He noted that the gesture had endeared more women and youths to the party ahead of the next election. Titi Amina Abubakar who addressed women at the Langfield Leisure Event Centre, Jos, thanked Plateau people, particularly the women for standing firm with the PDP despite the difficult moments in the country. She noted that her husband, Atiku Abubakar, does not seek to govern Nigeria as an experiment, but to unify the country in the collective interest of the entire citizens. She noted that women and children would be carried along as key drivers in the economic and policy thrust of the administration. Titi Abubakar stressed some of the achievements that the country recorded under the PDP, adding that she had been a strong supporter of her husband, women and children within the Nigerian society. She explained that the good gesture had contributed immensely to her organisation, the Women Trafficking and Child Labour Eradication Foundation (WOTCLEF). The delegation was earlier at the Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH), where it commiserated with accident victims and other patients who were receiving treatment.