From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja The Minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen, has called for a state of emergency to be declared on Female Genital Mutilation (FGM), following alarming statistics that show Nigeria accounts for 10 percent of the global burden of with the highest prevalence in the country’s South western States. Recall the UNFPA and UNICEF in a joint statement on the Elimination of FGM in Nigeria, said 4.3 million girls are at risk of female genital mutilation in 2023 and projected that the number is likely to reach 4.6 million by 2030.   According to a statement by Director, Press and Public Relations, Olujimi Oyetomi, she made the call at the Joint Ministerial Press Briefing event in commemoration of the zero-tolerance for Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) held at the United Nations (UN) House, Abuja. Tallen described theme for the event: “Partnering with the men and boys to transform social and gender norms to end female genital mutilation #menendiFGM” as apt, “as we need more men to achieve the stated objective of the programme.” According to Tallen, who described FGM as an extreme form of violence used on women and girls to change their genitalia for non-medical purposes, the practice violates the rights of women and girls. She revealed that in the communities where FGM is practiced, a variety of justifications have been made for the procedure, including the belief that it is a necessary component of cultural and religious obligations, a means of boosting women’s fertility and reproductive capacity, as well as for the survival of the unborn child. She revealed that over 19.9 million women and girls have undergone FGM in Nigeria. Tallen emphasised that combating FGM involves action on many levels, including families and communities. She added that it would also entail local and regional laws and political commitments, as well as the protection and care of women and girls. She promised that her Ministry will continue to advocate for laws to punish perpetrators of this unjust act; with the domestication of 2015 Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Act, partnering entertainment industry for change, creating women and girls offline and online platforms to build partners and agencies’ capacities.   The Minister added that, her Ministry will continue to appreciate the 2021 UNICEF-supported “Movement for Good to End Female Genital Mutilation in Nigeria.” In his closing remark, the Permanent Secretary, Shehu Shinkafi said he was happy to see that the event recognised the power of partnership, collaboration and networking among stakeholders to defeat the scourge of FGM in Nigeria. He commended the working relationship going on between the Ministry and Federal Ministry of Health and Federal Ministry of Justice and other development partners. The joint media briefing had in attendance, UN-Women, UNICEF, UNFPA, other agencies. There were representatives from Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and Civil Society Organizations (CSOs).