Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA), yesterday, slammed governors from the South East zone for boycotting the funeral of president general of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, George Obiozor, in Imo State. HURIWA, in a statement by its National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, said Governors Dave Umahi (Ebonyi), Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia) and Charles Soludo (Anambra), “essentially demonstrated their failed leadership styles” that had led to persistent crises in the zone by their inexcusable absence and failure to pay the final respects to Obiozor, leaving the host Governor, Hope Uzodimma, to shoulder the burden. The group also tasked voters in the zone to use the March 11 governorship elections to elect real Igbo governors that would have the interest of the South East and Igboland at heart and not the present crop of leaders. Obiozor, who died on December 26, 2022, was the president general of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide but the governors in the zone were conspicuously absent during his funeral. Onwubiko said: “It is disappointing and intolerable that the South East governors manifest no leadership zeal and passion for Igboland. Their absence at the burial of Ohanaeze Ndigbo president is just the icing in the cake in the cacophony of their failed leadership styles that has led to persistent crises in the zone.  “HURIWA calls for mass participation in the election and under no circumstances should any anti-Igbo foreign insurgent make voters sit at home during polls. The Igbo should see this election as the best opportunity to elect real Igbo governors that will have the interest of the South East and Igboland at heart and the voters in the South East should never repeat the error of electing haters of Igboland into political offices.” “The best way to regain stability, peace, harmony, economic growth and attract tourists from all over the world to Igboland is for Igbo voters to turn out en masse and elect real Igbo men and women with passion for the homeland into all the electable offices in the South East.  “Also, Nigerians should not make another mistake of a president who won’t obey court orders. “The president should also immediately stop Finland-based Simon Ekpa from instigating killings in the South East through hate speeches and social media broadcasts that he has been using to incite hoodlums. “The Federal Government should use strong and resolute diplomatic measures to stop him and repatriate him to Nigeria to face justice for alleged treason.”