From Gyang Bere, Jos Plateau State Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Hon. Chris Hassan said the party is better prepared to win the Saturday Presidential and National Assembly elections in Plateau State. He raised an alarm over the alleged influx of vigilante groups imported by APC chieftain from neighbouring states into Wase Local Government Area to intimate and cause mayhem on innocent electorates during voting. Hon. Hassan who addressed Journalists in Jos on Tuesday through the State Publicity Secretary, John Akans said the party has no pending court case ahead of the next elections. “As we prepare for the much awaited general election on saturday the 25th of February, the attention of the party has again been drawn to another diatribe antics of the rejected, sinking and shameless All Progressives Congress,APC in the state of an attempt to deceive the general public about the state of affairs of our party. “For the umpteenth time, the confused and devastated leadership of the APC have come out to say that our great party will not be on the ballot of the 2023 General Elections. This messy write up has exposed the outgoing APC as the sponsor of the dirty work, produced from the figment of their illicit imagination and out of the shadow that the ruling party is already jittery and afraid of defeat come Saturday 25th February and March 11th.” He explained that the party structure that produced Hon. Musa Agah as candidate of the PDP for the last Bye-election which the party emerged victorious but robbed in was different with the 3 adhoc delegates that carried out the primary election that produced candidates for the 2023 elections. He described those who are peddling rumour that PDP will not be on the ballot on account of the judgement of the bye-election as a mischief orchestrated by the APC to demoralize and weaken the morale of the PDP supporters ahead of the polls, since they have been rejected by the voters. “We call on all our members across the state to ignore the unfounded and unsubstantiated lies making round in the social media. These are nothing but cold signs of defeat by the APC which is awaiting them in the coming polls. “We have also traced the author and peddler of the lies and the mole has since been expelled from the party in his ward. We call on all our members and supporters to remain resolute in voting all our candidates from top to bottom 5/5. “The Party is very uptimistic that heavier defeat awaits the APC in the state and Nigeria, APC’S stooping to “fabrication of fairytale and lies ” only reflects fear and outright panic ahead of the coming polls.” He stated. Hassan added further “We urged the APC to come to terms with the hard fact that the Plateau electorates, in making their choices will not be deceived by mere smokescreens of lies but would be led to those choices by a combination of antecedents of sound track records of 16 years of unbeatable achievements of the PDP. “We are reliably informed that the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives Hon Ahmed Idris Maje is recruiting and importing vigilantes to Wase from neighbouring state with the intention to harass and intimidate voters during the election. We therefore call on the Commissioner of police to put the Deputy Speaker under watch as his plans is to creat unrest before and during the election. “We call on the electorates to remain calm in their determination to vote APC out for the betterment of their future. The party is as well ready to protect and defend their votes”. He stated.