From Aloysius Attah, Onitsha Major stakeholders from Nando community, Anambra East local government, Area, Anambra State have rejected the aspiration of one of their own, Obinna Chris Emeka to go to the National Assembly and instead opted to support Chinedu Obidigwe for a second tenure to represent Anambra East and West Constituency in the House of Representatives. Emeneka from Nando community is a three-time member representing Anambra East constituency in the State House of Assembly and the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the federal legislative seat of Anambra East and West having defected from APGA. He slugged the APGA party ticket with Obidigwe for the seat during the 2019 election   but failed as Obidigwe not only defeated him in the primary election but eventually succeeded to the Green Chambers after winning the general election. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Yesterday some  stakeholders in Nando, Okwujinne Nnatuanya (Aladu Nando), Chief Ugbenugo Nando and Chief Nnamdi Nwawue (Ayaya Nando)  in their separate endorsements of Obidigwe for a return to the National Assembly said they will remain with Obidigwe and APGA and together with their numerous supporters and other villagers work for his eventual victory at the polls on Saturday. Nnatuanya who hosted Obidigwe in his Nando country home said they cannot be swayed by kinsmen sentiments and work for a failure who has divided the community the more than unite them in his legislative duties. He described Obidigwe as a plain minded politician who relates with all people regardless of class, family background, wealth or other worldly considerations noting that his first tenure has been dotted with verifiable achievements. Obidigwe while responding to the endorsement appreciated the people of Nando for their love and support promising that he will not only remember the community in his next legislative assignment in Abuja but also ensure that the community takes its pride of place in Anambra East local government.