From Okey Sampson, Umuahia A group, Isiala Ngwa South Progressive Elites (INSPE) said it has endorsed the governorship candidature of Dr. Alex Otti of the Labour Party (LP). In a statement signed by Dr. Elelenta Nwambuisi Elele, Chief Victor Amuta, Prince Uzochukwu Nwachukwu, Chief Ken Ezenwoke and 20 others, the group said they endorsed Otti as a result of the “deceptive and hypocritic utterances and claims made by certain persons and groups in the area. The group stated that Dr. Otti, from Umuru, in Ehi na Uguru Autonomous Community, Isiala Ngwa South LGA is both their son and brother, by nativity and kinship covenant. “He is fully and wholly one of us, though he has ancestral links with Arochukwu”. The statement read in part, “Having watched with keen interest the hightened drama and intriques that have characterised the Abia political space in the run for the 2023 elections, especially with regards to the Governorship, we hereby state as follows. “That the falsehood peddled by these supposed elders and elites in our land, who go by all sorts of group names – is most unfortunate and sad. “That these characters whose belly is their god, and whose claim to patriotism can only be linked to how much of their selfish interest is guarranteed by any identified paymaster, can no longer be allowed to deceive our Ngwa people, and rape our collective consciences. “Determined to clean off their age long mess on our land, using the name of Nde Ngwa, and extricate the unsuspecting masses from their webs of thick lies, deception and treachery, and stomp out their dark heels from our political landscape, we hereby call on all nde Ngwa, and indeed all Abians, to henceforth ignore any pronouncement from such unstable characters, and cast their memory to the dustbin of dark history. “Having dutifully X-rayed all the governorship Candidates of the various political Parties for the Abia 2023 Guber race, vis a viz the urgent need to resuscitate our comatose State and put it back on the tracks of development and economic prosperity, we, in all sincerity and honesty, hereby adopt Dr. Alex Chioma Otti (OFR) of the Labour Party as the best choice, and the most credible and competent at this time. “We must however state unequivocally that we are aware that Dr. Alex Otti is not contesting this election on the basis of any clanish considerations, neither is our endorsement. He is contesting and endorsed based on competence and character”. The group urged all Abians to vote massively for Otti of the Labour Party on March 11. In an interview, a member of the group, Ismael Onuoha said outside (INSPE), the Organization of Nde Ngwa in USA and Canada (NNUSAC) are solidly behind the candidature of Otti.