• Urge Nigerians to vote for God-fearing leaders From Fred Ezeh, Abuja Catholic Bishops, under the umbrella of Catholic Bishops’ Conference of Nigeria (CBCN), have raised concerns about the efficiency and functionality of the newly introduced technologies by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) ahead of the coming elections, particularly the BVAS machine. The bishops, in a communique released at the end of their first plenary meeting for the year, appealed to INEC to allay the fears of Nigerians regarding the BIVAS machine and improve on its efficiency and functionality. CBCN President, Lucius Iwejuru Ugorji, who signed the communique, said the coming elections would provide another opportunity for Nigerians to, historically, choose leaders that are capable of governing for the common good of the majority of the people. He said: “This is now the time to reject evil, greater or lesser, and wisely choose good and capable candidates, at all levels. Our votes are precious, hence we must use them well. We encourage all eligible citizens to come out en masse to vote for God-fearing, honest, vibrant, and transparent leaders for a better Nigeria. “We urge INEC and its officials to ensure their conducts in the entire electoral process are transparent, honest, and beyond reproach. We also enjoin the commission to make sure the newly adopted technologies for accreditation, transmission, and collation, are transparently and sincerely deployed and not manipulated to give false results.” The Catholic bishops challenged the police and other law enforcement agents whose primary duty is to enforce law and order and ensure the protection of persons and materials during the elections, to efficiently and professionally carry out their responsibilities without fear, favour, or partiality.  “In the same manner, we advice youths not to allow themselves to be used as thugs and agents of disruption and violence before, during, and after the elections. We, at the same time, enjoin voters to ensure proper counting is done before the transmission of the results. “One ugly and unfortunate phenomenon that has characterised the electoral contests in our nation is that of vote-buying and selling, aimed at frustrating and compromising the free choice of the people.  “We vehemently continue to condemn this practice and urge all politicians and the electorate to avoid this unlawful and sinful practice and embrace the values of human dignity, integrity, and decency to have free, fair, and credible elections.  “We acknowledge the important role of both national and international observers in safeguarding the integrity of the electoral process and the promotion of its greater openness and transparency. We call on those engaged in this task to eschew every trace of bias and partisanship in discharging their duties,” Ugorji said. The bishops also acknowledged the importance of the judiciary as an important institution in the settlement of electoral disputes.  “The significance of this role has continued to rise to the point that it seems no election is complete and determined without the pronouncement of the courts. “Unfortunately, this role sometimes results in the abuse of judicial power and office wherein unconscionable orders are made, which mock the electoral process and the general will of the electorate. No doubt, this not only compromises the essence of democratic competition, but also leads to loss of confidence in the judiciary.  “We, therefore, encourage all judges and lawyers to, once again, see themselves as ministers in the temple of truth and justice, and work to make the judiciary the ‘last hope of the common man’,” he said.