From Tunde Omolehin, Sokoto An International medical organization, Médecins Sans Frontières otherwise known as Doctors Without Borders (MSF) says it has supported Nigeria’s request for the World Health Organization (WHO) to recognize Noma disease as a neglected tropical disease (NTD).  The organization’s Field Communication Officer for Nigeria, Abdulkareem Yakubu, disclosed this in a statement made available to Journalists. The statement described the move as a step towards inclusion of the little-known but life-threatening disease noma as a neglected tropical disease (NTD) by the global body. It stated that the effort was built on a three-year international advocacy and communication campaigns.  “After a three-year international advocacy and communication campaign, a representative from the Federal Ministry of Health of Nigeria shared the dossier on noma with WHO offices in Abuja, Brazzaville and Geneva in January 2023.  “MSF supported Nigeria in finalising the dossier and engaging with the co-sponsors, which include 30 countries from five WHO regions.  The statement further said the request for noma’s inclusion on the WHO’s list was in line with the resolution on oral health adopted in 2021 at the 74th World Health Assembly recommending that “noma should be considered for inclusion in the NTD portfolio as soon as the list is reviewed in 2023.” It noted that the health body would take the final decision on whether to add noma to its list of neglected tropical diseases during one of its biannual meetings in 2023.  “The inclusion of noma in the list would shine a spotlight on the most neglected of neglected diseases, facilitating the integration of noma prevention and treatment activities into existing public health programmes and the allocation of much-needed resources,” says Sherlock.  “We want children to be screened in endemic countries for noma from the first sign of symptoms, when lives can still be saved. Noma is a disease that should no longer exist.” It reiterated that Noma is a preventable and treatable disease that affects people living in poverty, especially young children, and is associated with malnutrition and unsanitary living conditions.  “Mostly it affects people in isolated communities who have limited access to healthcare and vaccinations.” The statement reads in part.  “Those who survive are left with severe facial disfigurement that can make it hard to eat, speak, see or breathe. Survivors often face stigma because of their disfigurement.  “There is no other infectious disease that kills so many people, so quickly,” says Mark Sherlock, MSF health advisor for Nigeria.  “People die from noma because of limited knowledge about the disease and how to detect it. More effort is needed to detect cases early and identify survivors,”  the statement said.