From Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has insisted that its leader, Nnamdi Kanu, has not been allowed proper medical treatment in the Department of State Services (DSS) facility, where he is being held in Abuja. The group who claimed this in a statement signed by its spokesperson, Emma Powerful, at the weekend, insisted that its leader is still under-fed. “Again, we want Biafrans, Nigerians, and the international community  to know that Nigerian Department of State Services (DSS) has continued to deny Mazi Nnamdi Kanu access to his personal doctor as ordered by the court, and has not provided him with his medical records either. “He is not being provided with his prescription medication regularly. Mazi Nnamdi Kanu is still being starved because his feeding has also not improved. According to IPOB lawyer, Barr. Ejiofor and others who visited Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra on Thursday the 9th of February 2023. “There is no improvement in his deteriorating health condition. Our leader’s health is deteriorating daily inside DSS solitary confinement, while DSS continues to defy the judgment and legitimate orders of courts of competent jurisdiction,” the group claimed. While appealing to the international communities to come to the aid of its leader, IPOB warned that its non-violence stance may be set aside if anything happens to Kanu. “IPOB has maintained a peaceful and nonviolent stance in our movement and struggle to restore Biafra, and we intend to continue the peaceful agitation for a Biafra independence referendum. “But this peaceful struggle will not be guaranteed if anything happens to Mazi Nnamdi Kanu in the DSS dungeon. If anything untoward happens to our leader in the hands of the Nigeria government and DSS, it will be a tit for tat towards any individual, group, and institution that is involved in the kidnap and extraordinary rendition of our leader from Kenya to Nigeria and much more,” the group warned.