From Ighomuaye Lucky, Benin Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Managing Director of the Benin-Owena River Basin Department Authority (BORDA), Engineer Saliu Ahmed, has said that Edo North senatorial district will leverage on the success stories of the agency to garner victory for All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates in the February 25 presidential and national assembly elections. Saliu, who made the remarks in a statement made available to newsmen in Benin City said the party’s candidates in the March 11, 2023 state assembly elections will benefit from the federal government’s intervention agency. He said the achievements of the agency cut across all six local government areas of the senatorial district as well as other senatorial districts in the state. He listed some of the agency’s achievements to include the three integrated farms Auchi, Okpe, and Uneme Nekhua, which were modeled after the Songhai Integrated Farms in Port Novo, Benin Republic. “In Owan axis, there are litanies of projects bearing the BORDA badge. From the block of classrooms to the water project and the dam, these projects bear true testimony to the agency’s spirit of changing the landscape and impacting lives positively. “No part of the Edo North district is marginalized as far as the distribution of the BORDA projects are concerned. “Using the bar of a shared vision in discharging its mandate to the people, the agency’s management has tried to put in place a merit system that treats all the communities as equal. In that way projects are distributed evenly. “Though, the APC candidates, caught in the loop of the brewing mistrust between them and the voting public, the likes of Engineer Saliu Ahmed provide a veritable escape route in the politically dark tunnel to market themselves and gain some advantage in the ensuing political contest. “There are similar projects in every nook and cranny of the district. “At the time they were being built, these projects were not in any way factor in the elections but, today, the APC candidates are cashing in on these projects to up their ratings before the voting public” “The success story at the BORDA is now the major plank on which the APC in the district is leveraging on to sell its candidates to a discerning voting public who are asking questions about the competence, capacity, and character of those aspiring to lead them”, he said. He maintained that the legacies of the BORDA’s management have become the unique selling point (USP) and reference point for the APC candidates to cash in on.