… Promises to ensure overhaul of education, health sectors in Oyo  From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan The 2023 governorship candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State, Senator Teslim Folarin, said the party’s presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, will   win at least 80 per cent of votes in Oyo State. He made the assertion when he featured on a guest forum of Oyo State Correspondents’ Chapel of Nigeria Union of Journalists(NUJ) in Ibadan, yesterday. Folarin, a former senate leader and the current Chairman, Senate Committee on Local Content, described Tinubu as the most competent, credible and prepared to lead Nigeria among all the presidential candidates. He explained that the state has over three million voters and APC would deliver more than two million votes to Tinubu on Saturday February 25, this year, adding that Tinubu would be in Ibadan for the APC presidential rally on February 7. He said all arrangements have been concluded to give him a rousing welcome. Tinubu, according to him, would also meet with traditional and political leaders on the same day. His words: “Asiwaju Tinubu is coming to the state on February 7 and our plan is to have the best rally so far. On February 9, we will start our campaign rallies everyone is expecting. “For Tinubu, it is like intoxication. Tinubu is like Lionel Messi of Nigerian politics. So, when you have him on your side, you have to use him. He is our best player.” Meanwhile, Folarin has promised to ensure total overhaul of the state’s education and health sector, if elected as governor of the state.  He argued that the present administration in the state has misplaced priority on what should be acruable to the education sector in the state. He, however, lamented the recent poor ranking of the state on WAEC performance chart based on abysmal performances and delisting of 50 secondary schools over examination malpractices. He described as disheartening that the state government under the leadership of Governor Seyi Makinde built bus terminals, instead of building standard schools across the state. His words: “The terminus in Lagos is different from what we have here. Makinde is building bus terminus at N4.5 billion each. If you do a calculation of N50million per block of classrooms, you will build a nothing less than 370 across the 33 local governments in the state.”