Says Buhari not working for or against any candidate Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja The Federal Government has replied Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai’s claim that some individuals in Aso Rock Villa are working to frustrate the victory of All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu in the February 25 presidential elections. Minister of Information and Culture Lai Mohammed, when asked to react to the allegations, said officially THE government is not aware of anyone within the presidential villa that is working against any candidate in next month’s presidential election Mohammed said the government has been fair to all candidates regardless of party affiliation and that President Buhari has consistently demonstrated that he is for free, fair and credible elections. Mohammed said: “On a more serious note, one thing I can assure you is that no matter what, this administration is focused, determined to ensure a free and fair election. But I think with this administration the most important person is Mr. President and I think he has shown by words and by deeds that he is dedicated to fa ree fair and credible election. “And fair, free, credible elections actually means not backing anybody. And everywhere he goes he makes that very clear even as recently as Friday when he was in Daura, he said the same thing. “If there’s anybody working against a candidate we don’t know officially.” El-Rufai who was a guest on Channels Television breakfast programme Sunrise Daily on Wednesday, blamed some of the government policies including the naira redesign and persistent fuel scarcity in the country on 5th Columnist, saying that naira redesign and persistent fuel scarcity may cause unrest in the country. According to him, the policy of currency redesign at this moment is the idea of a few people in the Presidential Villa, Abuja, adding that it was never the policy of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). He said: The policy of currency redesign is the idea of a few people in the Presidential Villa. APC never promised a naira redesign. This is not the right time to embark on such exercise because most parts of the areas in Nigeria have no banking facilities.” The former Minister of Federal Capital Territory (FCT) alleged that the naira redesign and fuel scarcity across Nigeria is the handiwork of the 5th Columnist, to bring down the government of APC. “I must say that the naira redesign and fuel scarcity is the handiwork of 5th columnists because they want to bring the country down, otherwise why must redesigning of naira be the priority of the federal government at this time”, he posited. El-Rufai who is a prominent member and co-founder of APC also alleged that most of the people in the Presidential Villa are not APC members hence some of the policies they are churning out from time to time are those that will hurt APC. Asked if he was not using his close relationship with President Buhari to make suggestions on how to solve some national issues, El-Rufai dismissed it with a wave of the hand, saying that he cannot remember when he made suggestions that were accepted. “I stopped going to Presidential Villa four years ago. What is the use when every suggestion you bring will not be accepted? ”I rather stayed back solving the problems of my state (Kaduna) which I believe will be more important to me and my people. I don’t go to the Presidential Villa anymore.”