From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan Barely 10 months after the death of the immediate past Alaafin of Oyo, Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III, the longest serving palace aide, Morenikeji Lasisi, is dead. The man fondly called ‘Baba Keji’ reportedly died on Sunday evening after spending close to 120 years, in his house inside the palace. However, it could not be confirmed whether he was ill before his death. Until his death, he was one of the more than 200 aides, working days and nights to ensure smooth running of royal, administrative, and domestic affairs in the palace. A palace source said: “Baba Morenikeji Lasisi (Baba keji) is the oldest palace servant, and he served Iku baba Yeye for 51 years, having served two other Alaafins before, including Alaafin Adeyemi the second who happened to be the father of Alaafin Adeyemi the third. Lasisi, apart from being called Baba Keji, which is an abbreviation of Morenikeji, he was also referred to as Baba Kekere, probably because of his smallish stature. In an interview with Daily Sun, he said he served three Alaafins – Oba Adeniran Adeyemi II, Oba Bello Gbadegesin Ladigbolu II, and Oba Lamidi, Olayiwola Adeyemi III, who passsed on Friday, April 22, 2022. Investigation revealed that Adeyemi II spent 10 years on the throne, while Ladigbolu spent 12 years and Adeyemi III, 51 years making a total of 73 years. Nobody actually knew his age and he too did not know his age when he got to the palace. He only recalled that he got to the palace as a young boy during the reign of Adeyemi II and he used to take Adeyemi III to school, when he was a boy. It has been estimated that he was well over 100 years, though some said he was between 119 and 126 years. The house in which Lasisi lived is adjacent to the Alaafin’s residence, which probably depicted that he was close to the Oba Adeyemi III. Lasisi said he was married and had three children and they all lived in the house given to them in the palace. According to Lasisi during the interview: “I was very close to the Alaafin despite the fact that I was a servant to him in the palace. The job I do in the palace is to cut grasses. The late king usually sent me on errand. “Everyday, I usually go to abattoir to get meat for my late boss in the morning. I have served three kings now. I got to the palace during the time of Oba Adeyemi Adeniran, the father of the late Alaafin Lamidi Adeyemi. “I also served Bello Gbadegesin Oladigbolu and Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi. I am always happy whenever I was with the Alaafin. He used to spend money and resources to cater for the people. There was always enjoyment in the palace during his reign. We were always enjoying ourselves. I will miss all the merriments. “I have no regrets working in the palace. I have never sat one day and thought that I was in a wrong place. As I am here now, if anyone tries to take me abroad, after telling my people, I will go. But I will surely return to my base here in Oyo town.”