•Says  subscribers can make calls, others By Chinenye Anuforo  Telecommunication giant, MTN has debunked rumours of a notice emanating from it that people would be unable to make calls, browse the internet, or conduct bank transactions during the election period due to a network freeze. The Company explained in another notice that, it does not  carry out maintenance works on its network during critical times to minimise the chances of an outage. “Keeping the network as it is, is a common practice in telecom referred to as Network  Freeze”, MTN said. In telecom, it is common to Freeze the Network. During the Network Freeze, any changes over the specific period of time are halted/hold, although it will continue to maintain its network and only the most emergency changes will be allowed to done on the network. Some mobile network operators implement freeze on their network during holidays like Eid Festivals, Christmas, Easter, Diwali, Holi,  New Year, Lunar New Year, Golden Week in Japan, Songkran in Thailand, Chinese Festival, End of Year Network Freeze and few more events. Apart from the holidays events mentioned above, the mobile operators do freeze their network for a specific time period for MR & HO Data Collection, Traffic Recordings before implementations of some major network changes, that could be: AFOS/IFOS/AFP implementation, Spectrum Re-farming & Rationalisation preparation and Implementation During the freeze, there will be no core works, upgrades, or maintenance are usually allowed which can affect the required changes. The aim is to restricting non-essential activities on the network due for MR & HO Data Collection, Traffic Recordings for FP script generation & implementation. There may be many more activities that required network to be freezed for acurate data collections and recordings for smooth implementation of required changes. An approval from Network Head is usually required to freeze the network with details of allowed and not allowed activties details along with the freeze duration and areas where freeze is required and then communite to all the concerned departments/teams about it just to ensure the strict compliance on it.