By Merit Ibe  The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has disclosed that its Aggregate  Index Score (AIS) of Manufacturers CEO’s Confidence Index (MCCI) declined to 55.0 points in the fourth quarter of 2022 from 55.4  points recorded in  third quarter of the year. According to the report, the  fourth  quarter of 2022 was  adversely affected by escalation in the Consumer Price Index  (CPI), continuous erosion in Naira value and difficulty in accessing forex,  high cost of energy, persisting insecurity and the consequences of  lingering  Russian-Ukrainian war. The  Association noted that these issues among others were principally responsible  for the difficult operating environment and its declining implication on manufacturing activities in the country during  the  quarter under review. “The  Aggregate  Index Score (AIS) of MCCI declined to 55.0 points in the fourth quarter of 2022 from 55.4  points  obtained in  third quarter of the year.   “The index score of the current quarter though below that of the previous quarter,  indicates that manufacturers generally  still have confidence in the economy.  “Across Sectoral groups however, activities in the Pulp, Paper, Printing & Publishing with index score of 49.6 points and Motor Vehicle & Miscellaneous Assembly (48.4 points)  are negatively  affected  by the harsh operating environment in the  quarter under review as their index scores fell below the 50 base points. “Similarly,  among industrial zones,  activities in Rivers/Bayelsa (48.0 points) and Cross-Rivers/Akwa-Ibom (46.5 points) zones were depressed by high-cost of operating environment in the fourth quarter of 2022 as underlined by their index scores which fell below the benchmark points.  Consequent upon the  above  trends, MAN advised that  it was crucial  for the government to have a shift towards a better exchange rate management; and moderate the rising energy cost via better management of refined petroleum products imported into the country. The association said these among other measures would no doubt  help to reduce the current high inflation, which is fast eating-up the working capitals of businesses including manufacturing in the economy.  The MCCI of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) is a quarterly    research and advocacy publication of the Association that  measures changes in pulse of operators and trends in the manufacturing sector quarterly, in response to movements in the macroeconomy and Government policies using primary data generated from direct survey of  over 400 Chief Executive Officers of MAN member-Companies.  MCCI Index is computed using data generated on standard diffusion factors of Current Business Condition, Business Condition for the next three months, Current Employment Condition (Rate of Employment),  Employment Condition for the next three months and Production Level for the next three months.   The Index has a baseline  score of 50 points  and scores above  the baseline  indicate improvement of manufacturers  confidence in the economy, while index score of  less than the baseline  suggests deterioration in the  operating environment.