From Abel Leonard, Lafia Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule,  has congratulated Nigerians over the decisions taken at the end of the Council of State meeting in Abuja, mandating the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), to print more currency, in order to cushion the hardship being experienced by Nigerians. Sule made this known while interacting with stakeholders in Farin Ruwa and Akun Development Areas, in continuation of his reelection campaign, on yesterday. The Governor equally welcomed the decision of the council mandating the Federal Government to obey the judgement of the Supreme Court which nullified the February 10 dateline earlier set for the expiration of the old Naira notes. This is just as he appealed to Nigerians to remain patient, stressing that the APC governors are seeking for a six month extension before the old Naira notes are phased out. In Kwarra, headquarters of Farin Ruwa Development Area,  the Governor appreciated traditional rulers and people of the area, for their support and cooperation that led to restoring peace and security in Ambaka previously bedevilled by bandits. He disclosed plans by his administration to harness the potentials of the Farin Ruwa waterfalls and Kwarra dam, particularly for the generation of approximately 40 megawatt of electricity. Sule called on the people not to waste their votes by voting political parties that are bound to lose the election but to vote for the All Progressives Congress (APC). Earlier, while enroute Farin Ruwa,  the Governor stopped over to inspect ongoing renovation at the Government Girl’s College Wamba, where he assured that his administration will take over the construction of the perimeter fencing of the school, renovation of staff quarters and the equipping of the newly refurbished science laboratory.  Sule stressed that, the GGC Wamba, like the GGSSS Garaku, was renovated by his friends, who committed millions of naira in the project in support of his commitment to improve the quality and standard of education across the state.  He made a personal donation of two hundred and fifty thousand naira, as well as books to the students. The Governor announced that,  renovation work will commence at the Government Science Secondary School Andaha, in Akwanga Local Government Area.  In Akun Development Area, Sule preached against acts capable of denying the people of the area dividends of democracy, urging them to desist from following politicians who, despite being in power for decades, failed to influence development to the area. “You must have mental problem to continue to follow a politician who spent 16 years in power without bringing any tangible development to the area. What’s the use of power if one cannot influence projects to your people?” he stated.  Responding, both overseers of Farin Ruwa and Akun Development Areas,  thanked the Governor for his commitment to bring development to rural areas. Hon. Solomon Bande,  Overseer, Farin Ruwa Development Area,  thanked Engineer Sule for constructing the Sisin Baki/Kwarra road, which has been a source of concern in the area for the past one hundred years. At the palace of the Gwom Mama,  HRH  Alhaji Mustafa B. Adam, appreciated the Governor for all the development strides in the area, particularly the construction of the Sisin Baki/Kwarra road. According to the royal father, the essence of governance is to deliver dividends of democracy to the people, urging the people to vote Engineer Sule and the APC from top to bottom.  As a token of appreciation for what the Governor is doing to bring about development to the area and state in general,  the Gwom Mama conferred the traditional title of the Mabudin Mama on Engineer Sule.  The overseer for Akun Development Area, assured the Governor that the people of the area are ready to massively vote for the candidates of the APC from top to bottom.