Vote candidate of your choice Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has asked the people of the South East to disregard the purported one-week-long sit-at-home protest called by some pro-Biafra groups and rather enjoined anybody willing to vote to go out and vote for the candidate of their choice on election day. Spokesperson of the Igbo separatist group Emma Powerful, who has insisted on IPOB’s lack of interest towards the election, reemphasised the group’s neutrality. According to Powerful “We have stated for umpteenth time that we have nothing to do with the Nigeria elections and have neither called for a boycott nor do we have the intention to call for election boycott during this coming elections. “More importantly IPOB has not called for any sit-at-home during the duration of the election and therefore distance ourselves from any purported sit-at-home in Biafra land during the election. “Those calling for “No election” and sit-at-home during the election period are simply Fulani agents whose sole motive is to discredit our self determination movement by attempting to paint it as an anti-democratic force,” Powerful said He also aded “Their intension is to create the ground work for the international community to view IPOB as being against democratic process and provide them with an excuse to clamp down on our activities and on IPOB Leadership. “Those calling for no election or Sit-at-home during this forthcoming fraudulent elections do not represent IPOB, are not IPOB family members never were IPOB family members and are not working for Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. “IPOB cannot legitimise a process whose foundation is abinitio of your choice. This is one of the reasons we have distance ourselves from the selection process called Nigeria elections. “Our focus remains the unconditional release of our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu as the Court of Appeal has Ordered and Referendum date for Biafrans to determine their political future”. In furtherance to this, Powerful disclosed that the Directorate of State of IPOB will make an official broadcast on Friday night on its radio station to explain further on the issue of the election. “We are not stopping anybody from performing his or her civic responsibility by voting person of your choice, IPOB did not order sit-at-home IPOB is not against anybody coming out for elections everybody should go out on these days criminals mentioned as sit-at-home. There is no sit-at-home order in Biafraland,” Powerful declared.