From Desmond Mgboh. Kano To Editor  Second Republic politician, Tanko Yakasai has appealed to Nigerians to avoid engaging in any conduct that is capable of plunging Nigeria into crisis during the 2023 general elections. The 98 year statesman particularly  rebuked  those whom, he said, might be nursing the intention to rig or to scuttle the upcoming elections, especially the presidential election, saying their plot would serve no good  Yakasai , in a statement on Sunday,  stressed that there are some unpatriotic elements in the country who, at this point, are solely focused on their own selfish and narrow interests without concern for the future prosperity of the nation and its people.  Yakasai. who went down memory lane, from1966 to the present day, highlighting the various pains, deaths and tragedies that have befallen Nigeria occasioned by the inordinate ambitions of a few players, f advised those considering to manipulate the outcome of the forthcoming presidential elections to have a rethink.  I believe that for Nigeria to properly care for its teeming God given population problems in the country must live in peace and harmony with one another. Elections come and go but the country will. ” Furthermore, it is crucial that Nigeria develops in order to properly cater for its burgeoning population. This can only be achieved if the country remains united, peaceful and harmonious” he stated..  “Those who are thinking of winning the upcoming elections through rigging and at all cost may not understand my concern for the survival of Nigeria and its people, which only stems from my patriotism” he affirmed” he stated. ” At 98 years old and as an only surviving child of my parents, with only a few relatives, all I have are my children, and grandchildren. I am not a billionaire nor even a businessman. My concern is not just for my self or my family alone but for my country, Nigeria and the totality of its  people” he said He therefore urged patriotic Nigerians to rise in defense of the peaceful coexistence of Nigerians, charging them not to allow the tiny misguided minority to undermine the coming electoral exercise..