JOE EFFIONG, UYO Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Rector, Maritime Academy of Nigeria ( MAN), Commodore Duja Emmanuel Effedua (Rtd) has express his appreciation  to the Federal Ministry of Transportation and the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) for their support toward the transformation of the  Academy  to a world-class maritime education and training institution. Commodore Effedua  who made the remark during the presentation of certificates to the first batch of trainees of the Engine Room Simulator (Operational Level) Course, following their successful completion of training in the Academy in January  this year,  said that the journey to bring the Academy at par with its counterparts in the global maritime scene began in 2018 with the commencement of the procurement of top-notch training facilities which culminated in their installation and utilisation, processes, an exercise  he observed   received tacit approval of the federal fovernment.  He also noted that the Federal Ministry of Transportation has been solidly behind his administration’s quest to ensure full realisation of Academy’s transformation as specified by the International Maritime Organisation (IMO). The Rector expressed confidence that with the continued support being enjoyed from the Ministry and the NIMASA, the Academy would sustain its new status as one of the best maritime education and training institutions in the world and even rise higher in the nearest future. While interacting with the first batch of trainees of the Radar Navigation, Radar-Plotting and Use of ARPA (RNRPA) Course, the Rector also expressed his happiness with the Academy’s commencement of simulator-based courses, applying the most modern simulators in the world with the backing and approval of NIMASA.  He reminded the participants that the Academy, with NIMASA’s approval, now has on offer 12 simulator-based courses for the training of seafarers to enhance their professional development. He noted that the foreign exchange  hithert spent on such training abroad but which would henceforth be saved by the country through the availability of the simulator-based courses in the Academy, and at very considerable fees, could better be channelled to other areas of critical national needs.   “Today is yet another memorable day for us at the Academy, because we have graduated the first set of students from our newly developed simulator- based courses. I am highly appreciative of the roles played by the Federal Ministry of Transportation and the Management of the Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency towards the realisation of this Academy’s aspiration. This feat, though it was not an easy one, would not have been achieved without their unflinching supports”, he stated. One of the pioneer batch students, an ex-cadet and a Third Engineer at the World Carrier Shipmanagement, Mr. Patrick Audu expressed his satisfaction at the quality of training he received during his training, noting that the training facilities, the learning environment and quality of instructors are all of international standard.  “I must say that I am very impressed at the new look that my alma mata is wearing, it is quite impressive. I was here as a Cadet in 2014, I know how it was back then, coming back to see the level at which the institution has been transformed is quite encouraging.  “I want to appreciate the management of the Academy for putting this in place and I want to tell them to ensure it is sustained. I also want to encourage my colleagues in the industry to come and get trained at the Academy instead of going abroad to spend money on a course they can get at the Academy and at a cheaper rate”, he noted. The Maritime Academy of Nigeria, which is Nigeria’s premier maritime education and training centre, has undergone alot of transformation  in the past five years in terms of the quality of training, facilities on board, competent instructors, conducive learning environment, amongst other, making g maritime describe as world class. With the acquisition of modern simulators for practical training, the Academy now boasts of 12 new courses which have been added to the institution’s Curriculum, viz: Ship Simulator & Bridge Teamwork (SSBT); Global Maritime Distress and Safety System (GMDSS) General Operators Certificate (GOC) Course; Electronic Chart Display and Information System (ECDIS); Radar Navigation, Radar- Plotting and Use of ARPA (RNRPA); Liquid Cargo & Ballast Handling Simulator (LCBHS); Bridge Watch-Keeping Preparatory Course (BWPC); Engine Room Simulator (Operational Level) Course (ERSOL); Engine Room Simulator (Management Level) Course (ERSML); High Voltage Course (HV); Auxiliary Engine Familiarization Course (AEFC); Boiler Familiarization Course (BFC) and Engine Room Watch-keeping Preparatory Course (ERWPC). The simulators, said to be the latest in the world of simulation awareness, are also custom- made to suit the current training needs in the maritime industry. Daily Sun learned  that the Multi-functional Classroom Simulator has eight simulators embedded in one and has the capacity to hold different courses at different times for both Engine and Deck Cadets/ Students and can accommodate up to 30 trainees at a time.  With the Full Mission Engine and Full Mission Deck Simulators, real life engine room and deck situations could be simulated to give trainees real life sea experiences.  While the Full Mission Deck Simulator can simulate any type of vessel including Warship, Tanker vessels- LNG, LPG Oil Tankers, the Full Mission Engine Room can simulate the movement of various engine parts and everything that goes on in a real engine room situation, including engine room watch keeping, monitoring of lubrication oil and moving parts of the engine. Also available in MAN is the Ocular Vision Simulator which when worn on the head launches the trainee into a virtual engine room where they can operate functions like operating of valves, switching on and off machineries within the engine of a ship.