From Desmond Mgboh, Kano A middle aged man was, on Sunday, stabbed to death during a rally organised by the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) to welcome decampees from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kano State. Top police sources told Daily Sun that some group of red cap wearing boys, armed with dangerous weapons, emerged from the bush path during the procession to the rally and stabbed their victim, fleeing back to the same bush path while adding that the victim was immediately rushed to the hospital, but died before their arrival. The source told Daily Sun that already the Sharada Divisional Police Officer, who covers the area of the crime, had been dispatched to identify the deceased, locate his family and hand over his remains to them even as he had been directed to ensure a discreet investigation into the incident with a view to bringing the culprits to book. In the meantime, the Shagagi led faction of the PDP in the state has collapsed their structure into the NNPP. The faction, which had all along been linked to Engineer Rabiu Musa Kwakwaso and the Kwankwasiyya political group, while they were in PDP, switched their loyalty at a grand rally which was attended by the National Chairman of the party, Prof. Rufai Ahmed Alkali and the party’s presidential running mate, Bishop Isaac Idahosa. Speaking at the rally, Sagagi said he, alongside 36 state executive members, over 700 local government executives, over 8,000 ward executives, 44 national delegates and 1,452 ward delegates decided to part ways with PDP, due to the internal crisis and nepotism rocking the party. “To us, this is a homecoming; we are real politicians and we have joined a political party that plays the real politics. I am, today, very much happy rejoining Sen. Kwankwaso once again, a year after our departure,” he declared. Bishop Idahosa received the decampees with joy and excitement, saying that with the historical defection of the high net politicians, NNPP is now stronger and would emerge victorious at the polls come Saturday.