From Paul Orude, Bauchi Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The All Progressives Congress (APC) says it has uncovered plans by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Bauchi State to engage the services of fake National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members to rig the February 25 Presidential and National Assembly elections. The APC has also alleged that the PDP in the state is assembling computers and ICT experts to hack the servers of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Sabo Mohammed, the Chairman of Media and Publicity for APC governorship candidate Air Marshal Safdique Abubakar (retd), made the allegation on Thursday at a World Press Conference. Sabo highlighted several antics which he alleged the PDP had employed to rig the election for the PDP. “We are aware of several undemocratic antics that the PDP in Bauchi State is putting in place to rig the election,” Mohammed said. “But we are determined to ensure that every vote counts. We have communicated to the relevant agencies and our party structure to be alert and steadfast to ensure that the rule of law is further entrenched.” Mohammed disclosed that the fake corps members would allegedly be deployed by the PDP to work with the genuine ones during the election to divert results He said some of the antics that the ruling PDP in the state plans to use to rig the election include the distribution of relief materials given by the federal government seven months ago to flood victims. Mohammed said traditional rulers were threatened to give the upper hand to the PDP, adding that due to the sensitisation of the traditional rulers by the APC, this plan had failed. “We have educated our people to relate with corps members peacefully and we have also informed the police and other relevant agencies on this development,” he said He also accused the PDP of buying Permanent Voter’s Cards from the electorate to weaken the opposition but expressed confidence that the Biomodal Voter’s Verification And Accreditation System ( BIIVAS) will continue to expose the PDP. He said the PDP in its desperation has resorted to using Permanent Secretaries and Directors to intimidate civil servants to vote for the ruling party. Mohammed called on their supporters to remain calm and peaceful in their conduct saying the APC would ensure that the enabling Electoral Law for the 2023 elections as amended must be adhered to. ” The relevant sections of the 1999 Constitution that talks about the election must be followed to ensure that people vote freely without any intimidation and if this is done, APC will win,” he said