… Says no right leader will want his people to suffer From Charity Nwakaudu, Abuja  Former Chief of Staff to  Imo State governor, Ugwumba Uche Nwosu has called on Nigerians to exercise a little  more patient with the government on difficulties attached with the accessibility of the redesigned naira notes. Nwosu made this call at an interactive session with journalists in Abuja, on Monday. He said that the naira redesigned policy is one of the best policies by the present administration saying that Nigerians will enjoy it in future as it will go a long way in saving a lot of unnecessary spendings. Nwosu  further blamed the National Orientation Agency,( NOA) for not properly educating the masses on the benefits of the money swap. He added that if Nigerians were properly sensitized before the naira redesigned policy,there won’t be difficulties in accepting it. “In most societies, we have cashless policies, when we say cashless it does not mean you will not have any cash but what it means it that the number of cash in circulation will reduce . The problem with this policy is  the National Orientation Agency ( NOA). When this policy was made ,the NOA  through the Ministry of Information was supposed to have properly educate Nigerians on the benefits.The policy is a very good one. The president have done well in bringing this policy. No politician or leader in his right senses will like to bring a policy that will make his people to suffer. The problem here is that the agencies that are supposed to sensitize the people on the importance of this policy are not doing it,he said. Speaking on the general elections,he said voting is a thing of the mind, conscience, adding that no one should be forced to vote against his wish.   “I think when it comes to the issues of elections and someone who you want to represent you,it is a thing of the mind.It is all about knowing what is good for you. Actually democracy is the thing of decision. No one should be forced against his wish. We have had in series of places where both the young and old ones have failed. Allow your conscience to access those running for the elections, then choose who you think is capable to bring the change we are all aspiring for. Age should not be the main factor in chosing a leader.he said Nwosu also appealed to politicians to mind their utterances before and after the elections inorder not to spark violence in the country.