From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, has advised politicians against heating the polity with inciting comments that could lead to violence before, during and after the general elections. This is as the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Olalekan Balogun, Alli-Okunmade II, advocated peaceful conduct and also counselled eligible voters against apathy. Addressing a news conference in his Palace, yesterdays, in Ile-Ife, Ogunwusi said the country has already been through a lot including the recent fuel scarcity among others and could not afford more trouble. “No one can force his or herself on Nigerians and this is why our politicians should avoid being desperate in their quest for power. If you don’t win today, it may be your turn tomorrow, and this is why I am imploring office seekers not to destroy tomorrow with inactions of today. I call on Nigerians, especially the youth population, which is the largest to partake in the polls as enshrined in constitution, not to violate any of the processes.” The monarch tasked Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to give Nigerians free, fair and credible polls. He also charged security agents to maintain their status as defenders of the constitution by creating enabling environment and not bullying the electorate. He also charged traditional rulers to remain apolitical and neutral as fathers that  to all politicians and electorate. On his part, the Olubadan said Nigerians should not allow the current discomfort across the land occasioned by the redesigned naira notes, cashless policy, and fuel scarcity to discourage them from going out in their large numbers and vote for candidates of their choice. The monarch in a statement by his spokesperson, Oladele Ogunsola, said: “There’s the tendency for people to be apathetic to the elections, having been wearied by the prevailing problems; but, that’s not the best way to react. I empathize with our people, but, I will want them not to see apathy as a way of getting back at the government for the unpalatable situation. “Election is part of the civic responsibilities of every good citizen and should any eligible person stay away from the poll, it is a demonstration of the opposite of good which is bad. No government can do everything, not even the governments of the so-called advanced countries. So, we owe it a duty to ourselves and our unborn children to be part of the process of bringing on board of another government.” The Olubadan commended INEC for the assurances given to Nigerians that it would give the country a credible, free, and fair election, stressing that the electoral umpire has so far demonstrated commitment to the pledge of good conduct of the 2023 polls.