From Kenneth Udeh Curtains have been brought down on the over three-week long campaign trail embarked on by Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu on Tuesday as the Senator touched the Umunneochi LGA wards of; Lokpanta, Lokpanta Cattle market, Lekwesi, Lokpaukwu and Leru where he received additional gale of endorsements backing his re-election. The Lawmaker representing Abia-North has within the past weeks the former Governor held fruitful interactions with his constituents in the entire 103 ABSIEC Wards of the Senatorial District on the need for his return to the Senate. As attested by his constituents Kalu showcased his scorecard of infrastructural, empowerment and legislative exploits within three and a half years at the Senate, including his next Agenda to consolidate ongoing and completed projects. Along with his entourage, the former Abia Governor paid Homage To the palace of the Regent of Lokpanta, Udumeze III of Lokpanta, HRH. Eze Sir Ifeanyi Anthony. Whilst conferring his willingness to back Kalu’s aspiration, the Monarch recalled Kalu’s efforts to develop the state throughout his eight-year tenure as Governor. Ifeanyi praised Kalu for carrying out effective and result-oriented projects. He drew Kalu’s attention to the Security issues between the boundary community and Ebonyi state, appealing to Kalu to call the relevant authorities to mediate in the matter to avert communal clashes. “We remember the blueprint you set as Governor, our schools were built, courts were also functioning but today those things are no more. Huge revenues can be generated from our community but the government only concentrates on the Cattle market and motor parks. As traditional rulers, we have only one vote but we have thousands under our influence, your votes won’t be missing as we will all stand by you, however, we appeal that you give us our share of those projects you are giving to others”. The Lawmaker notified the Monarch that he would be the first traditional ruler to be visited since he started his campaign owing to the enormous regard he has for the Traditional ruler and the people of Lokpanta. A beneficiary of Kalu’s Cassava Processing Machine, Njoku Jacynthia spoke at “Lokpanta” lauded the Senator for the initiative, explaining how useful the machines would be to the farmers. Njoku, a former Teacher recalled how Kalu places a premium on workers’ and students’ welfare in the course of his tenure as Governor in addition to his current exploits as a Senator. She said; “As a teacher when he was our governor, we received our salaries no later than the 25th of every month, leave bonuses and other incentives were promptly paid. For a single day, we never had any issues till he left. “The students’ education was totally free, with free textbooks, uniforms and other learning materials, unfortunately, those things vanished under the tenure of the past and current Governors of the People’s Democratic Party. “As a Senator we now enjoy some of those things he did in the past by building our schools, roads, and water, giving our children free textbooks, and the recent distribution of Cassava milling machines to women has filled us with so much joy. We will all vote for him massively come February 25th. Bigwig of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) Party, Hon. Emeka N. Okafor in Umunneochi endorsed the candidature of Senator Kalu over his accomplishments, he informed Kalu’s re-election was beyond political affiliation but a collective responsibility of all the residents. Trooping out in large numbers, dwellers at the “Lokpanta Cattle market Ward”, gave their nod for Kalu’s re-election shortly after their interaction led by the Secretary-General Cattle Market Association, Prince Auwal Hamma. The senator was praised for playing a fatherly role in both the state and the nation at large, they lauded Kalu for creating the Cattle market which they said was established for the purpose of creating additional revenue for both the state and the Cattle rearers. According to Auwal, they could bear witness to his infrastructural works in Umunneochi saying that there was no need to campaign as their votes belonged solely to him. The newly constructed road at Amorji, Lekwesi was described as the best gift they ever received from the Government, during Kalu’s interaction with the community residents. Traditional Leader Orji of Amorji, Engr Eze Nwankwo Abel Nwafor, conveyed gratitude for speedily fulfilling the promise he made to the community in August last year as the road is now fully completed with double drainages. He pledged to mobilise his community to ensure that Kalu gets all the votes. President General of Amorji, Lekwesi, Mgbeke Basil also showered encomiums on Kalu for creating an enabling environment for rural communities to thrive saying that his return is a done deal. More endorsements poured in for Kalu as an eminent stalwart of the People’s Democratic Party and community leader, Mr Igwe Sopuruchi commended Kalu for giving the community its first tarred road. According to him, they would vote for Kalu as the lawmakers rekindled their trust in the Government of the APC. Kalu was shown gratitude for raising successful politicians from Umunneochi extraction at “Lokpaukwu” in a speech given by the President General of Lokpaukwu, Hyginus Eze. According to him, Kalu gave the community political inclusion, stating that they would repay him with their votes. On his part, Senator Kalu acknowledged the community’s appreciation for backing his re-election and the construction of the Enugu – Lokpanta- Aba – Port Harcourt expressway by the APC-led federal government. In reaction to their request, Kalu gave assurance that he will expedite action for the construction of the Amorji / Obiulor / Lekwesi ring road, adding that more projects and empowerments will be executed following his re-election.