From Okwe Obi, Abuja  Coalition of 10,000 civil society groups has assured the presidential candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), Rabiu Kwankwaso, of 15 million votes in Saturday plebiscite. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Some of the groups are Northern Ministers Forum, Rebuild Women and Youth Foundation, Greater Movement Network, National Responsible Youth Organization and The Determined Icons. Leader of the group, Bishop Godwin Abah, who addressed the media, yesterday in Abuja, adjudged Kwankwaso as the best candidate among the plethora of persons vying for the plum office. Abah urged Atiku Abubakar, the standard bearer of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), to step down for the former Kano State governor. He said: “Coalition of Civil Society Groups meticulously assessed leading political parties and their presidential candidates noted their antecedents and democratic credentials in the quest for a strong, united, progressive, prosperous, equitable and just democratic society. “And, considering the views of most rural dwellers with permanent voters cards the Coalition interacted with who expressed confidence in Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso for touching their lives in many ways and desire him to be President, has unanimously selected His Excellency,  Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso as the best presidential candidate, accordingly adopted him for President in the Saturday 25th February 2023, presidential election.  “A man of enormous intellectual capacity and capability, Kwankwaso is an embodiment of patriotism, integrity, humility, nobility and versatility with a vision, mission and blueprint for a new, better, greater and prosperous Nigeria. “He is the only presidential candidate who have traveled across Nigeria on road, visited more states, senatorial districts and local government areas more than other contenders for president to articulate people-oriented projects and programmes to boost their standards of living.”