From Noah Ebije, Kaduna House of Representatives candidate for Chikun/Kajuru federal constituency of Kaduna State, under the platform of African Democratic Congress (ADC), Hauwa Abdullahi Gambo has called on the electorate to ensure that they don’t waste thier votes on incompetent candidates at the forthcoming elections. Addressing a press conference on the efforts she made so far to win the seat at the House of Representatives during next Saturday polls, Gambo said the people of the constituency are solidly behind her. She however, lamented that the cashless policy affected her campaign tours in some areas, adding that no cause for alarm as every Nigerian was being affected by naira scarcity crisis. “We must ensure that we vote for credible candidate for the House of Representatives on next Saturday election. And we must also ensure that we vote for credible presidential candidate. We must ensure that we vote credible and capable legislators because without credible and capable legislators our president and governors will be handicapped.  “I also want to remind us that if you want a new era of leadership, we must not vote old politicians because over the years they have failed to deliver quality leadership to us. We must no longer tolerate bad leadership and bad governance. The only way we can reject bad leadership and bad governance is by voting capability, capacity and credibility. I want to appeal to you to go to the polls on Saturday and  peacefully vote for the candidates of your choice. ‘We must not indulge in any manner of corruption at the polls because it will affect the kind of leaders we aspired to have. I want to remind us that Nigeria is the only country we have, so we must ensure we vote the right leaders. The only way we can do this is by exercising our civic responsibility by voting the right leaders to make the election credible and violence free.  “As my people, you deserve the best life has to offer but it depends on  who you vote, the choice you make to represent you at the National Assembly on Saturday. I want to call on you to vote for the life you want to live in the next four years because it is right on your hands, use it well.  “The fuel and naira scarcity are affecting my political ambition because there is transport issue which was caused by fuel scarcity as well as cashless crisis which has prevented a good number of my people to be with me, it has prevented them from going to places we love to go today. It has affected us the way it affected other Nigerians.We feel the impact of fuel scarcity and we also feel the impact of cashless crisis”. She stated.