By Chinenye Anuforo Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From 1979 when the telephone began transforming the way we are connected, nobody could have imagined we would one day think up something as innovative as 5G or eSIM. When the first SIM card emerged in 1991, the world was dazzled by the possibilities it promised and progress it would bring. But as it goes in the tech industry, there is seemingly no limit to what human ingenuity can achieve and there are always more glass ceilings to smash. It is because of this tenacity and desire to turn bold, sometimes outlandish, ideas into reality that gave birth to technologies such as embedded SIM (eSIM) and 5G. 5G network  5G is the fifth generation mobile network. It is a new global wireless standard after 1G, 2G, 3G, and 4G networks. 5G enables a new kind of network that is designed to connect virtually everyone and everything together, including machines, objects and devices. 5G wireless technology is meant to deliver higher multi-Gbps peak data speeds, ultra-low latency, more reliability, massive network capacity, increased availability and a more uniform user experience to more users. Higher performance and improved efficiency empower new user experiences and connects new industries. 5G is driving global growth. Through a landmark 5G economy study, it was found out that 5G’s full economic effect will likely be realized across the globe by 2035 supporting a wide range of industries and potentially enabling up to $13.1 trillion worth of goods and services. This impact is much greater than previous network generations. The development requirements of the new 5G network are also expanding beyond the traditional mobile networking players to industries such as the automotive industry. The study also revealed that the 5G value chain (including OEMs, operators, content creators, app developers, and consumers) could alone support up to 22.8 million jobs, or more than one job for every person in Beijing, China. And there are many emerging and new applications that will still be defined in the future. Only time will tell what the full “5G effect” on the global economy is going to be. What is eSIM? An eSIM is an embedded SIM, essentially the same hardware of a regular SIM card chip but now a permanently embedded part of the motherboard of a watch or smartphone. Just like a traditional SIM card, an eSIM also consists of some components, which are now a part of your phone’s internal organs. They also function the same way, acting as a unique identifier for telecom operators and other consumers to reach your exact smartphone when they make a call or send a text. However, being attached to the motherboard also allows re-programming, letting users switch operators without having to replace any physical SIM cards.  What’s new on table with eSIM  Every technological advancement removes some barriers and contributes to overall ecosystem by facilitating new use cases and eventually easing the life of consumers, raising the operational effectiveness of industries or some other monetised benefits. Here, eSIM technology is more focused on the overall cost aspect, security, free-of-cost roaming and other legacy inconvenience bounds that were linked with one subscription model.   End users will now have the freedom to not be linked with a single operator/subscription and switch to any operator on demand at any time and place.  While it’s no longer compulsory to purchase plastic SIM cards even today, however, while travelling to new countries, eSIM remote provisioning capabilities will play a good role to get the best subscription for the user in his/her destination country.  According to a white paper on eSIM, the technology is the future, not least because it will end up being cheaper and more customer-friendly. The white paper noted that every mobile network operator (MNO) will need to change to reflect that. It added that to truly realise the opportunities, MNOs should proactively pursue a strategy of overhauling their existing practices to reflect the new market reality. For operators, the adoption of eSIM is inevitable. Within the next 10 years there is little doubt that the plastic replaceable SIM will become redundant. The report noted that it is not hard to envisage eSIM adoption growing dramatically to be a mass-market phenomenon by 2025.  Other reports showed that the eSIM market is expected to grow rapidly, from an estimated $253.8 million in 2018 to nearly $980 million this year, 2023. The White Paper noted that the key point with eSIM is that it is not optional. It stressed that in future millions of devices will be eSIM only. Eventually all will be eSIM-only and plastic SIM cards will be phased out.     MNOs, in recognition of both the inevitability and the opportunities of eSIM, have been increasingly active in rolling out the technology. Today, report has it that over 200 mobile network operators, including all the major global groups, support eSIM. The technology has also matured dramatically: over the last five years eSIM has moved from being based on vendor-specific solutions deployed by individual operators, to being a global compliance framework from the GSM Association, which will allow all operators, OEMs and eSIM solutions vendors to deploy interoperable products and services. Indeed, Nigeria is not left in all these new technological advancements as MTN Nigeria always  brings the country up to date with latest technology.  e-SIM in Nigeria In 2020, in its continued drive to lead digital transformation, foster inclusion, improve customer experience and maintain the highest quality of service for its customers MTN Nigeria  announced the trial of e-SIM services on their network based on approvals received from the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). The trial kicked-off that year and ran for one year  to a limited number of subscribers who own compatible devices.  Expressing satisfaction at the development, Mazen Mroue, then Chief Operating Officer, MTN Nigeria said the company was eager to get through the trial process so that the technology can be deployed for the benefit of every Nigerian.  “We are in a fast-paced digital age with new technological advancements driving the constantly changing landscape. Against this backdrop, customers depend on us to provide high quality, reliable and easy-to-use connectivity solutions. “With the introduction of the e-SIM, we will offer customers a seamless and distinctive digital experience with new levels of flexibility, simplicity and convenience. This is a further demonstration of our firm commitment to delivering the benefits of a bold new digital world to our customers; and we will continue seeking new ways to provide solutions that address old and new challenges, making life a little easier and brighter,” Mroue stated. MTN is spearheading e-SIM adoption in Nigeria as part of efforts to enable the digital economy. For all MTN mobile subscribers who own e-SIM compatible devices, setting up an e-SIM profile with a new or existing mobile plan is quick and easy. All it takes is a visit to an MTN service centre where frontline staff will help in registration and onboarding at no cost.  5G in Nigeria Also, in 2022, MTN launched the 5G in the country. With higher multi-Gbps maximum data speeds of up to 10 Gbps, ultra-low latency, increased reliability, massive network capacity, and increased availability, 5G will drive innovation across every sector, industry and transform everything as we know it.  What does this mean for Nigerians and how will it impact our lives, from the software developer based in Lagos to the grandma in the depths of Makurdi. According to the World Bank, Nigeria has the highest number of out-of-school children in the world.  5G will accelerate the democratisation of inclusive and affordable access to quality education, thus levelling the playing field between children in remote villages and children in cities. Education in Nigeria will be transformed by 5G, as students will be able to download learning materials faster and collaborate in real-time. Students will be able to ‘be inside’ these environments they are being taught in and even have holograms of guest speakers in their classroom without lag, making education more experiential. Medical students are not excluded from this educational experience. They can use augmented reality to dissect cadavers and diagnose illnesses, among other things. Indeed, 5G technology will advance the educational sector in Nigeria by bringing abstracts to life and introducing a new way of seeing the world. It is not news that Nigeria has a medical personnel shortage. Telemedicine is now at our fingertips thanks to 5G technology. From anywhere in the world, doctors can virtually perform live scans, video consultations, medical diagnoses, and examinations. Interestingly, this was one of the use cases demonstrated at MTN Nigeria’s commercial launch of 5G technology, as doctors from Canada and United Kingdom performed a medical diagnosis on a patient in Nigeria.  Poor women, who are most at risk of maternal/infant health issues, will have access to proper antenatal care from a doctor anywhere in the country or the world with a single 5G device in a primary health care centre. When combined with haptic technology, 5G enables a person in one location to control the movement of an object in another. This means that a doctor in Los Angeles can perform surgery in Lagos remotely. Although some may dismiss this as impossible, we thought the exact same thing when mobile phones, airplanes, and electric cars first appeared. The marvels of the 5G revolution have created the possibility that Nigerians might very well soon abandon physical examinations, diagnosis, and treatment in favour of telesurgery. Speaking at MTN Nigeria’s commercial launch of 5G technology on September 18th, 2022. Adia Sowho, Chief Marketing Officer at MTN Nigeria, stated, “The list of possibilities with 5G is endless. We are truly excited to be at the forefront of bringing this amazing technology to Nigerians and can’t wait to share in all the incredible moments that our customers will experience.”  This is true because slow internet speed is a major issue for creatives such as content creators, movie producers, and photographers, among others. However, the 5G revolution has eased this pain point because 5G’s low latency, incredible speed, and bandwidth enable instantaneous file transfer without a second’s delay. The Chief Marketing Officer backed up this claim during a live speed test at the 5G launch, where a file of 2GB was placed to download on both a 4G and 5G network. The 5G network downloaded the file in less than two minutes, while the 4G network said it would take an hour. “5G has already downloaded the file, while 4G has asked us to return in an hour,” she said. 5G will forever alter the way we enjoy entertainment. AR/VR technology will enable us to do more than just watch content; we will feel as if we are there. We can virtually visit other countries, be in games rather than just playing them, and watch artists perform together live on stage from different locations, such as Fireboy performing in Nigeria and Ed Sheeran performing alongside him from London, all thanks to 5G. Because they have an equal connection, our gamers will be able to compete on an equal footing with gamers from all over the world. There is no doubt that with this revolutionary technology, the Nigerian creative industry is about to take a 180-degree turn and we will begin to witness more marvellous creative expressions and productions in the entertainment space than we have in yesteryears. Agriculture is one way for Nigeria to achieve true sustainability. We can have smart farms with 5G, where farm activities can be managed using robots, drones, and other devices to improve the quality and quantity of production and maximise results. Smart-enabled devices on smart farms process faster progress in cultivating, planting, manuring, and harvesting while minimising labour for farmers. Farmers can monitor market prices in real time, storage facilities for moisture and other issues, and if there are any complications, farmers can be alerted via SMS. Farmers will be able to work more efficiently and produce more food, reducing poverty, food scarcity, and the hike in food prices which favourably impacts the Nigerian economy. Another possibility enabled by 5G is the Smart home. Realtors can design homes where every device is smart, responsive, and connected to meet the requirements of a new homeowner. Imagine arriving home to find your air conditioner, lights, and water heater already turned on. Your sound system plays relaxing music that has been pre-programmed. 5G technology allows a homeowner to be comfortable without performing any heavy lifting or home preparations. From anywhere in the world, they can tell if there has been a break-in, if their fridge has been opened, or if the lights have been turned off. This is a brand-new and exciting revolution in Nigerian real estate. As Nigerians, familial and religious values are extremely important to us, and with the japa wave separating families, this is another area where this piece of technology can assist, as 5G literally eliminates distance. If 4G enabled us to see and communicate with people all over the world in real time, 5G allows us to feel them to a significant degree. A grandmother in the village can hold her new grandchild as soon as they are born, no matter where they are born in the world, thanks to haptic gloves. 5G will improve religious service coverage and allow penetration into the most remote parts of the country. Think about living in Canada and worshipping in Nigeria with your family in real time. The Fintech industry would not exist without 4G; the possibilities for this sector and the financial sector are limitless. 5G will enable seamless database communication, allowing telcos’ KYC data, BVN, NIN, and other databases to be linked in a way that makes it faster, easier, and cheaper to validate identities without physical presence or technical expertise. This is necessary for obtaining formal identification, opening a bank account, and gaining access to certain government services, among other things. Filling out forms for financial institutions, government agencies, and other organisations is difficult for most people at the bottom of the pyramid. 5G will enable seamless voice-to-text applications, allowing illiterate or semi-literate people to fill out forms by speaking to an Integrated Voice Response (IVR) system – even in their native language – and thus access critical services by themselves. 5G will connect Nigerian consumers and businesses to themselves and the rest of the world in ways we couldn’t have imagined before. This, according to the Chief Executive Officer, MTN Nigeria, Karl Toriola, is one of the reasons MTN Nigeria invested so much in bringing this technology to Nigeria. “5G will enable new industries, unlock value chains, and open more doors for Nigerians.” We understand the possibilities of a digitally empowered society and are honoured to play our part in delivering this game-changing technology to our great nation. “This is what our ambition is by 2025- to build leading solutions for Africa’s progress, and today’s launch spearheads the next journey for us as we stay committed to sustainable advancement for Nigeria’s progress and that of our shareholders and customers,” he said. As humans evolve, needs arise, and with needs come solutions. 5G technology has boundless solutions for Nigerians, and this truly promises to be an exciting time for all Nigerians as we get to experience the endless and quite breath-taking possibilities that 5G technology enables.