The Army, yesterday, restated its commitment toward ensuring a conducive atmosphere for free and fair general elections across Nigeria.      General Officer Commanding 8 Division of the Nigeria Army, Sokoto, Maj. Gen. Godwin Mutkut, made the assertion at the 2022 end of the year West African Social Activities (WASA) assuring of peaceful polls in the state.   Hesaid the Division was suitably ready to support all relevant security agencies and authorities in shaping the environment to ensure the forthcoming general elections were conducted in a conducive atmosphere. “The 8 Division of the Nigeria Army will continue to be committed and more responsive in discharging its constitutional roles. More so, we will not relent in fulfilling the assurance of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, to Nigerians in ensuring the 2023 general elections are free of military’s intervention,” he said. The GOC further expressed gratitude with the performance of the officers and soldiers of the Division, saying they have done exceptionally well as evident in the current level of peace and security within the state. “This is in line with the Chief of Army Staff’s vision, which is to have a professional Nigerian Army ready to accomplish assigned missions within a joint environment in defence of Nigeria,”Mutkut said. The GOC thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for his sustained support to the Army, while appreciating the COAS for ensuring an enabling environment to military toward addressing the country’s security challenges. In his address, Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal  commended Buhari for his foresight toward sustainable peace and peaceful coexistence across the country. Tambuwal, represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Mainasara Ahmed, restated his commitment to support security personnel in achieving their constitutional mandates of ensuring a peaceful environment for all. “The state government will continue to support all security agencies to succeed in our collective desire of defeating all criminal elements in the state,” he said. WASA is a social function inherited from the colonial era in the 2nd War, during which indigenous Nigeria army personnel celebrate their cultural heritages at the end of every year.