Dr Eddy Akpomera, an expert on migration, says many Nigerians lack awareness on issues relating to labour migration, particularly the presence and services of Migrant Resource Centres (MRCs). Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Akpomera, a consultant to the International Labour Organisation(ILO) on Labour Migration, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Lagos. NAN reports that the establishment of the MRCs in Abuja, Lagos and Edo states by International Organisation for Migration (IOM) is an initiative which supports government’s efforts in managing organised labour migration. It provides services that enable potential and actual migrants to protect themselves. He noted that in view of the low awareness, MRCs were being under utilised by  those expected to benefit from their services. Akpomera spoke on the sideline of a three-day stakeholders sensitisation workshop for the implementation of the Revised National Policy on Labour Migration. The workshop was organised by the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment (FMLE) in collaboration with ILO. He noted that MRCs serve as a focal point for outgoing and potential migrants to obtain accurate information, among other services rendered. “According to a survey conducted by the National Bureau of Statistics, for intending migrants, the level of awareness for males in Lagos is 43.6 per cent, while females is 56.4 per cent. In Edo, males are 53.8 per cent, and females, 46.2 per cent, respectively. “How much of public awareness have we been able to inculcate of the presence and services of MRCs in these two locations? “So, this will serve as a guide that awareness level is still low,” Akpomera said. He also said that statistics had shown that the level of non-awareness for MRCs by returning migrants was 90 per cent in Lagos, while 50 per was recorded in Edo. He said that the high level of awareness for  MRCs in Edo could be attributed to efforts taken by the state government. According to him, this is probably because there is a taskforce, set up by the government, in the state and the migrants were usually received by the government. “Also, there are so many civil society and faith-based organisations that are into migration issues in the state and they may have helped to raise the level of awareness. “This data talks to us about how knowledgeable Nigerians are, both intending and returning migrants, in terms of awareness of the presence of MRCs. “So, the implication of this is that the MRCs are being under utilised by  those that are to benefit from their services, “ he said. The consultant said that MRCs in Nigeria needed strong partnership and networking that span across CSOs, faith-based organisations, trade unions and employers as a way forward. According to him, MRCs in capital cities need local partners to work with for effective service delivery. Akpomera said, “FMLE should encourage NGOs and faith-based agencies to either establish MRCs or network with Abuja, Lagos and Benin MRCs as they serve as local points in safe and orderly labour migration.” (NAN)