. . ….. approves palliatives of N200m for farmers,N50m,N3Om for NURTW,others From Olanrewaju Lawal,Birnin Kebbi The Kebbi State government has approved about N530 to purchase bags of rice for free distributions and N200 million for healthworkers to provide free medical treament at various hopitals to cushion the negative effects of the CBN cashless policy on the people of the state.    Also, N280 million was approved for the  dry season farmers, National Union of Road Transport Workers(NURTW) ,Commercial motorcycle operators and tricyclist unions known as Keke Napep to cushion the negative effects of fuel scarcity and cashless policy on the members of the unions. Secretary to the State Government (SSG),Alhaji Babale Umar Yauri who confirmed this in a statement personal signed and made available to newsmen ,stated that the action of the state government was a response to difficulties currently faced by these unions in the state as a result of fuel scarcity,cashless policy.   According to him,”In response to the difficulties currently being experienced by the general Public which is directly associated with the Implementation of the Currency redesign policy, as well as the perennial fuel scarcity across Nigeria, the Kebbi State Government has considered and approved some immediate measures to cushion the effects.     “Accordingly, ₦200 million has been approved to help with dry season farming, ₦50 million to help the National Union of Road Transport Workers (Kebbi state) branch, ₦20 million for commercial Motorcycle operators and 10 million for Keke Napep operators. These measures while not being exhaustive, are aimed at reducing the impact of the difficulties in  residents of Kebbi state.      “At the same time, the measures will support agricultural production which has been a focus of the administration. Finally, the measures shall ease movement of persons and essential goods.     ” In addition, Gov Bagudu who also serves as Chairman of the Progressive Governor’s Forum, has approved the sum of ₦200 million for the health sector (Hospitals and Primary Health Care Centre’s) to ensure that all those who visit such facilities can be attended to and provided basic care, irrespective of whether they have cash or not. A portion will be used to purchase essential drugs and consumables for designated centers.     “Equally, the sum of ₦530 million is being provided to procure 15,000 bags of rice, that shall be sold to public servants at 50 percent discount.     “Engagement with various groups are ongoing and the Government shall continue to respond as much as possible to support the populace, whilst the challenges are being resolved” ,he added.