New manager Sean Dyche enjoyed a dream start as a much-improved Everton side stunned Premier League leaders Arsenal at a raucous Goodison Park. Dyche was appointed last Monday following the departure of Frank Lampard, who was sacked with the team in the relegation zone. And the hosts picked up their first victory in 11 games in all competitions courtesy of a link-up between two men who played for Dyche at Burnley. Centre-half James Tarkowski rose at the far post to power home a header from Dwight McNeil’s corner to spark the sort of joyous scenes that have been witnessed rarely at Goodison this term. Everton had enjoyed much the better chances in the opening period too, but striker Dominic Calvert-Lewin could not convert from the excellent Amadou Onana’s low cross and also flicked a header wide. Arsenal were outfought for large periods and failed to find any rhythm, although January signing Leandro Trossard forced Jordan Pickford into a sharp save late on. The Gunners were unable to find the leveller and will see their lead at the top cut to two points if champions Manchester City beat Tottenham on Sunday. Mikel Arteta refused to slam his Arsenal players following their shock 1-0 loss to relegation-battling Everton on Saturday. James Tarkowski’s 60th-minute header was enough to give the Toffees their first Premier League win in 105 days, lifting them out of the drop zone in Sean Dyche’s first game as manager. For Arteta and Co, the defeat at a raucous Goodison Park was only their second top-flight loss of the season, following a 3-1 slump at Manchester United exactly five months ago. Arsenal huffed and puffed, with in-form striker Eddie Nketiah and captain Martin Odegaard both squandering chances to extend the Gunners’ lead at the top of the Premier League table to more than five points, as well as avoiding a second successive defeat in all competitions following last Friday’s 1-0 loss to title rivals Manchester City in the FA Cup.  Post-match, Arteta lamented his players’ “purpose and quality in the final third,” despite boasting 70 per cent of the possession, but maintained his pride for them.