Anambra State Governor, Chukwuma Soludo, has inaugurated Panac Industries Limited, an export based seeds processing plant, situated in Mgbawa, Ogbunike in Oyi Local Government Area. Soludo, who was represented by Commissioner for Industries, Obinna Ngonadi, said the plant which was first of its kind in the South East region was an addition to the industrialisation drive of Anambra. He commended Chinedu Aniagboso, the managing director of the firm for blazing the trail in the seed processing sub-sector and called on entrepreneurs, across the country, to invest in Anambra as the state was open to investors. Ngonadi was accompanied by Eloka Mmaduekwe, special adviser to Soludo on Commerce and Industry. He said the administration was determined to support activities in the export sector as it had already commenced the creation of an export emporium where all export bound products would be showcased, standardised, branded and containerised. “This is a great initiative, exporting processed agro produce is a huge addition to the industrialisation efforts of Anambra, including its employment and revenue benefits. “We are going to support businesses like this, already we have building an export emporium on a 40 hectare of land, that facility will be a standardised point for all Anambra export brands,” he said. In his remark, Aniagboso said the company was set up with a view to adding value to Nigeria’s agricultural produce. He said the plant which had a combined capacity of 60 metric tonnes processed sesame seeds, soya bean seeds and sorghum Aniagboso said the initiative was borne out of years of business opportunities research both within Nigeria and outside the country. He thanked the Anambra government for providing the environment while urging it to provide the basic infrastructure and institutional support for young entrepreneurs. Director General of Onitsha Business School, Segun Sogbesan, said the only way Nigeria could improve its balance of trade was to encourage export of value added products. Sogbesan said Nigeria should move from exporting primary products to processing to earn foreign exchange.