• Anambra monarch celebrates maiden Ofala in style Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Aloysius Attah, Onitsha Abacha community in Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State was in festive mood recently, during the maiden Ofala festival of its traditional ruler, Igwe Godwin Nwabunwanne Odiegwu. The community and its people were indeed in ecstatic mood. The Abacha community stadium, venue of the ceremony was lit up with fanfare even as cabinet chiefs and other red cap chiefs from the community exchanged friendly banters to the admiration of all. Wild jubilation greeted the arrival of the Igwe and his entourage at the arena just as various traditional costumes and cultural identities of the Abacha people were on display. In his maiden Ofala address, Igwe Odiegwu called on the entire the people of Anambra State to give Governor Chukwuma Soludo maximum support to excel in office. He said that from the impressive achievements the government has so far recorded from the little time Soludo has stayed in office, he remains confident that if given maximum support, he will dwarf all his predecessors in office in terms of achievements. Igwe Odiegwu expressed gratitude to God for making the occasion a reality, while commending the State Government for its effort and commitment to the town’s development. He also appealed for the cooperation of sons and daughters of Abacha to ensure that a new era of peace and joy was kick-started in the town after moments of retrogression. The traditional ruler pledged to uphold the sanctity of the throne, and as well carry his cabinet members, town unions and stakeholders in the community along in decision making: “My slogan and priorities are to pursue anything that will promote peace, unity, development and brotherliness in the community.” Anambra State Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Don Onyenji who graced the occasion with his wife, applauded the people of Abacha for their peaceful disposition and maximum support to the traditional ruler as can be attested by their massive turnout at the event. Onyenji noted that his ministry was eager to partner with various communities in the state to develop the state’s culture and tourism potentials, while enjoining Abacha people to always live in peace and back their monarch for peace to thrive in the town. Earlier, Traditional Prime Minister of the town, Chief  Paul Omofia, who is also Chairman of the Ofala Central Planning Committee traced the history of Ofala in Abacha Community. He recounted the many challenges that would have derailed the event but thanked God for making the occasion possible. He described the emergence of Igwe Odiegwu as the traditional ruler of the community as an act of God. There were scintillating masquerade and cultural displays while some deserving personalities bagged chieftaincy titles.