From Molly Kilete, Abuja Ahead of the February 25, presidential elections, the Chief Of Army Staff(COAS), Lieutenant General Faruk Yahaya, has given a final warning to political thugs, Criminals, hooligans and miscreants who are planning to disrupt the process to reconsider their decisions. He said the Nigerian army alongside the services and the security agencies were fully prepared to counter anyone or group who may want to disrupt the process. Gen Yahaya, gave the warning at the Inaugural Lecture/inauguration of Army War College Nigeria Participants Course 7/2023, in Abuja. The army Chief while noting that the elections were just a few days away, assured the preparedness of all he Nigerian Army to provide a peaceful and conducive environment for law abiding citizens to perform their civic duty of voting leaders of their choice before, during and after the elections. He said “As we move to the 2023 general elections, I want to assure the nation of the commitment and resolve of the Nigerian Army along with the other services, agencies and stakeholders of our preparedness to provide conducive environment for a free, fair and credible elections. “Criminals, thugs, hooligans and miscreants are advised in their own interest to abide by the laws of the nation and not interfere as the law abiding citizens and good people of nigeria go to the polls to freely exercise their constitutional rights to vote”. The COAS, while noting that the Army War College, was established to bridge the identified training gap between tactical and therapeutic levels of warfare, said the successes so far recorded by the institution since its inception in 2017, was commendable as alumnus of the college have made the positive contributions in the field. He therefore charged the participants to remain focus and maximize the benefits of the rich course content of the college. He said “I am confident that by the end of the course You all will have been well groomed into the elite league of critical thinkers who strive not only to identify challenges, bedeviling our nation, but to provide possible strategies and solutions that will mitigate them. He said “As new challenges continue to emerge in our dear nation in the face of concerted efforts at tackling the excess ones, I believe that the knowledge gained in the college will equip you with the requisite expertise to plan and execute military operations in the theaters. “The course will also enhance understanding and synergy between the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies in the conduct of our operations. This aptly key into my vision for Nigeria Army which is to have the professional Nigerian and ready to accomplish assigned missions within a joint environment in defense of Nigeria. To this end, it is my desire to sustain Nigerian Army’s current drive in confronting the country’s Hydra headed security challenges while improving personnel training welfare and professionalism in order to achieve the desired end state.Speaking on the security situation in the country, the COAS, said “For over a decade now, our nation has been grappling with an array of security challenges, ranging from insurgency, kidnapping, banditry, and other forms of threats. “The Nigerian Army is not relenting in tackling this threats through improved strategies, commitment and synergy with other services and other stakeholders. This efforts have recorded a lot of successes and Nigerian army will continue to improve on these gains, leveraging on our improved training, discipline as well as the equipment and other enablers provided by the president commander in chief of the armed forces. I therefore challenge you participants to imbibe all that is gained from this great institution in order to bring about pragmatic solutions to bear when confronted by any challenges in the field”.