Chelsea and Manchester United want to sign Victor Osimhen at the end of the season. And they are ready to invest €120 million for the 24-year-old Napoli striker, according to a report from Gazzetta dello Sport, as relayed by Sport Witness. Osimhen has been in fantastic form this season, scoring 15 goals across all competitions. There is no doubt that the 24-year-old would be a quality long-term acquisition for both Premier League clubs. And it remains to be seen who ends up signing him eventually. He has been linked with PSG as well. Manchester United needs to add goals to its attack, and Osimhen could be the ideal partner for Marcus Rashford next season. The Nigerian could lead the line for the Red Devils, allowing Rashford to operate as a wide forward. Meanwhile, Chelsea is severely lacking in goals right now. The team has improved its midfield and defence with a number of additions this season but needs to bring in a reliable goal scorer. And along with Manchester United, the team is ready to break the bank to sign the 24-year-old. So it is not surprising that the club is open to paying €120 million to land him. Osimhen will certainly add some much-needed cutting edge in the final third. And his arrival could help Chelsea challenge for the Premier League title next season. The 24-year-old has the technical and physical attributes to succeed in English football, and he has the talent to justify the reported asking price as well. It will be interesting to see whether the two English clubs can agree on a fee with Napoli now. The Serie A giants have a reputation for being difficult negotiators, and they will want to recoup as much as possible for their prized asset. The opportunity to move to the Premier League will be an exciting one for the striker, and he will look to showcase his qualities at a higher level next season. Managers like Erik ten Hag and Graham Potter have a proven track record of improving young players. And they could help the 24-year-old improve further and fulfill his potential. Osimhen has already proven himself in Serie A and he should look to take the next step in his career now. A move to Manchester United or Chelsea would be ideal.