By Henry Uche In continuation of its desire to see a new Nigeria with responsible and accountable leaders, the Africa Leadership Group (ALG) has urged Nigerians to watch out for men and women of integrity and motivation who have clear vision for Nigeria, and vote for them in Saturday general elections. In a statement delivered by Chairman & Founder of ALG, Pastor Ituah Ighodalo, the Group urged Nigerians (in addition to the aforementioned criteria) to vote for candidates who are educated and possesses strong intellectual capacity and verse knowledge to manage diversities. Pastor Ighodalo maintained that good governance, accountability, equitable and effective use of human and natural resources for greater Nigeria is a function of quality leadership, thus Nigerians must shun sentiments and vote wisely. “Nigeria needs a president who must be accessible, a leader who would surrounds himself with people of truth and honesty. Such a leader must understands the requirements of the office, understands politics and effectively manages the complexity of bureaucracy. “We call on all eligible Nigerian citizens to exercise their right to vote wisely at the polls during the 25 February 2023 elections. Nigeria cannot afford to get it wrong this time. We must intentionally and carefully select leaders fit for purpose at this time who can lead us out of this national crisis.” With less than 6 days to the general elections, he decried the heightened level of acrimony among the major political parties which has given rise to tension, embarrassment and frustration across nooks and crannies of the country coupled with the severe shortages of fuel and the redesigned bank notes, resulting in public disturbances and riots throughout the country. “Despite all odds, we must maintain peace and rather use our voices and votes wisely, evaluating all political candidates against clear principles and qualities of strong leadership. “Nigeria needs a man who would puts nation first before self, a man who’s honest who possesses moral, ethical principles and values, who inspires and does not pressure people to follow. “Nigeria is at risk of becoming a failed State due to decades of worsening leadership, poor governance, and endemic corruption. The already fragile fault lines borne from ethno-religious conflicts have escalated. The polity has worsened with banditry, kidnapping and terrorism, further contributing to national insecurity. As Nigeria approaches the 2023 elections, The TIME TO ACT IS NOW. VOTE!” He added that ALG was committed to ensuring that every lawful votes count, and would collaborate with other credible organizations and volunteers to ensure the integrity of free and fair elections by observing polling stations to verify that lawfully registered voters cast their vote in an environment that is fair and free from coercion, intimidation, or violence and that the results announced reflect the votes counted. “ALG will note and report any election irregularities in accordance with INEC guidelines as we look forward to fostering and pursuing a greater Nigeria through Responsible, Ethical, Accountable Leadership (R.E.A.L). “We shall continue to preach accountability, respect for all, integrity, transformation, diversity management, equity and justice for every Nigerian,” he assured.