Says North retaining power beyond 2023 threat to national unity From John Adams, Minna With barely a week to the February 25 Presidential and the National Assembly elections, Niger East Senator Sani Musa has defied the current security situation in his constituency as he takes the Tinubu/Shettima campaign to local governments and wards in his senatorial zone to seek support for presidential candidate Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his running mate, Senator Kashim Shettima. The senator who is also seeking re-election for the second term into the red chamber under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is being accompanied in the local government and the wards campaign tour by the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in the state and member representing Chanchaga Federal Constituency, Hon. Umar Mohammed Bago. Speaking to the people of his constituency at Kagara and Bosso in Rafi and Bosso local government areas of the state respectively, Senator Musa reiterated his call for power to shift to the south in 2023, stressing those who want the power to remain in the north beyond 2023 are enemies of democracy. He pointed out that the power rotation in the country has remained a moral bond between the south and the north since 1999 for equity, justice and fair play, insisting that any attempt to allow power to remain in the north after President Buhari’s eight years in office is a huge threat to national unity. He assured the people that a Tinubu presidency would address the country’s security crisis, including his constituency that has been under siege by terrorists since 2015, adding that what is needed to address the security challenges is a strong political will which he believes the Tinubu/Shettima Presidency will not lack. On the mirage of problems facing his constituency, the senator promised the people that if given the mandate for the second term, he will address the problems and consolidate his achievement in the last four years. At Kagara, Rafi local government, the senator, while appealing to the people to vote for the ruling APC at all levels in the forthcoming elections, promised the people of the Emirate that the Kagara Wter Dam Project which was abandoned over 30 years ago will soon be completed so as to address water problem facing the people. According to him, “the Kagara dam project that was awarded to Biwater Construction Company some years back has been revoked and awarded to an indigenous company, let me notify you also that plans are in top gear to construct the Kagara township ring road within the next two months” The senator also pledged to provide a 50-bed cottage hospital each in Kagara and Kuta in Rafi and Shiroro local government areas, respectively. The senator later paid homage to the Emir of Kagara, HRH. Alhaji Ahmed Garba Attairu Gunna II at his palace where the Emir appreciated the guests for paying homage and pleaded with the senator and the governorship candidate to keep to their campaign promises to the people. He equally raised the security concern of the Emirate and also requested more development in the local government area.