• Inaugurates 22-man transition committee Please enable JavaScript From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja  President Muhammadu Buhari has inaugurated a 22-man  Presidential Transition Council to facilitate and manage the 2023 transition programme to the next administration, saying his records of achievements must be preserved. He said his administration has successfully advanced the fortunes of the country and learned lessons that will be helpful for the new administration, leading to its decision to ensure a smooth transition for the incoming president and his team on May 29. Represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, the president said the reforms that enabled those achievements must be documented and communicated in clear terms, so that “the incoming administration understands what we have done, the basis of our decisions, what we achieved and the opportunities for continuity.” President had, last Thursday, approved the establishment of the council, and also signed the Executive Order 14, 2023 to legalised the activities of the council. During the council’s inauguration, Mustapha said it was another historic occasion for the current administration since it showed its continued commitment to bolstering important institutions of governance that assist the democratic process. “Although the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria sets out the overarching framework for assumption of office of the president, this is the first time in our history as a country that the Federal Government will be establishing a detailed process for managing presidential transitions of government at the federal level. “It is with great delight and honour, therefore, that I am carrying out the onerous task of inaugurating the Presidential Transition Council, on behalf of the president. “In line with the Executive Order No. 14 of 2023, the council is charged with the responsibility of facilitating and managing the 2023 Presidential Transition Programme,” Mustapha said.  He said the council will among others facilitate the handing over process by the current president to the president-elect; organise for the security of the president-elect and the vice president-elect including coordinating security briefings on the nation’s security matters post-elections. Other mandate of the council is to organise for the necessary facilities, including fully furnished office and personnel for the president-elect and his/her transition team. “Co-ordinate the briefings of the president-elect by relevant public officers; facilitate communication between the outgoing president and the president-elect; prepare the programme and organise for the swearing-in ceremony. “Carry out any other activity necessary to ensure optimal performance of the functions of the president under the constitution and perform any other function assigned to it under the 1999 Constitution as amended.”  He added that the council shall have all powers necessary for the execution of its functions under the new Executive Order and shall conduct its business in line with national ethics as espoused in Section 23 of the constitution. He also said except as otherwise provided in the Executive Order, the council may determine its own procedure. He said: “I enjoin each of us to put in even more effort in ensuring the next administration receives every support needed to make an early and quick start. In a few months, it will be eight years that the Buhari administration has been in power. “Within this period, we have made significant strides in advancing the fortunes of our nation, we have also learnt lessons that will be useful for the incoming administration and it is on the strength of this trajectory, that the current administration is committing itself to making the 2023 transition process seamless for the incoming president and his team. The SGF also said the reforms that enabled those achievements must, therefore, be documented and communicated in clear terms, so the incoming administration understands what we have done, the basis of our decisions, what we achieved and the opportunities for continuity. “Our achievements must be preserved. To maximise the limited time we have, Mr. President has directed the chairperson of the council to convene the inaugural meeting of the council with immediate effect. This aims to kick off the transition process across all levels of government in line with Executive Order No. 14 of 2023. The president expects that the transition process will be replicated across states government.”  He also announced the appointment of the Special Adviser to the President on Policy and Coordination, Habiba Lawal, as the secretary of the Presidential Transition Council in line with the Executive Order No.14, and that she shall be known as the Federal Transition Coordinator. Speaking on behalf of all the members of the council,  Head of Service of the Federation, Folashade Yemi-Esan, said it was a privilege to be called upon to serve.  She appreciated the confidence reposed in them by the president in approving their membership is transitional council.  Yemi-Esan assured members will work together to ensure they leave no stone unturned in facilitating the smooth transition of governance.