Sylvanus Viashima, Jalingo The Integrated Christian Association of Nigeria in Taraba State has distanced itself from the Purported endorsement of the gubernatorial candidate of the People’s Democratic Party PDP Col. Kefas Agbu by the Christian Association of Nigeria CAN. Chairman of the body Bishop Silas Usman Loto told journalists on Tuesday that the action of CAN leadership in the state without consultation with all the stakeholders was capable of creating unnecessary divisions among the Christian population in the state. He noted that Christians in the state have more than one candidate for the office from various political parties and endorsing one candidate over the others without engaging them all in constructive dialogue amounts to discrimination, injustice, and unfair treatment which is contrary to known Christian doctrines. “We are concerned about news making the rounds on the socially media by a section of CAN purportedly endorsing the gubernatorial candidate of the PDP for the election in the state and urging Christians to vote for him. This endorsement is wrong and of no effect on the Christians in the state. We are not aware of any meeting where this decision was taken. “We are embarrassed that the leadership of can, without due consultation with critical stakeholders and the general assembly, will make such a decision when there are other Christians seeking the same position. “To engage in such a discriminatory endorsement of one Christian against others is sowing a seed of discord among the Christian community in the state. To imagine that none of the other contestants or their representatives was even consulted before arriving at this decision is unthinkable. “In view of the above, we hereby dissociate ourselves from the purported endorsement and enjoin all Christians in the state to disregard it. Let us all seek counsel from God to give us direction on which way to go. We are ministers, the forerunners of Christians and CAN can not exist without ministers. And so we are concerned that this move can potentially create disunity among the body of Christ” he said.