From George Onyejiuwa, Owerri Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The PDP candidate for Imo East Senatorial District in the upcoming National Assembly election, Hon Barr Uche Onyeagocha, has expressed commitment to improving the welfare of police officers in Nigeria to engender effective policing and service delivery. The erstwhile Secretary to the Imo state government disclosed this on Monday when some retired police officers in the state paid him a solidarity visit in his country home Obinze, Owerri West council. Hon. Onyeagocha promised that if elected to the upper legislative chambers of the National Assembly that he will focus on initiating policies that will improve the welfare of police officers in the country. He described as unfortunate the dehumanising working conditions of police officers in Nigeria, especially within the rank and file and promised to advocate for improved payment, barrack accommodation, allowances and other welfare packages. “Police is the most abused and misused among Nigeria’s security agencies. The police deserve to be accorded respect, dignity, good welfare packages and accommodation. I shall through legislative advocacy ensure that the budget of the police Service Commission is placed among the first line charge in budget allocation because such will enable the Commission to be more effective in improving the welfare of police officers in Nigeria” he stated. The former member of the House of Representatives added that when there is improved welfare for police officers, there will be effective service delivery especially in providing adequate security for the lives and property of the citizens. Hon. Onyeagocha later charged police officers to ensure they discharge their duties within the ambit of the law. In his reaction, the leader of the group, Rtd DSP Dan Okere thanked Onyeagocha for receiving them and promised to mobilise their members within the Owerri zone to vote for him. He described Hon Onyeagocha as the most qualified and the best choice for the Owerri zone. He expressed confidence on Onyeagocha’s capacity and prayed to God to grant him Victory in the election.