From Scholastica Onyeka, Makurdi Ahead of the forthcoming general elections beginning from next week, the Senior Pastor of Dunamis Gospel International Church, (DGIC), Dr Paul Enenche, has said that the 2023 elections is an opportunity to change the situation of the country.Dr Enenche stated this in a chat with newsmen at the Makurdi airport, shortly on arrival for the Makurdi Healing and Deliverance Crusade. The man of God noted that the array of candidates lined up for the elections has presented Nigerians with an opportunity to choose between corruption and incorruption, light and darkness. He therefore, cautioned that the people must choose and vote wisely if they want the banditry, kidnapping and other forms of ills bedeviling the country to end. Enenche said “2023 election is an opportunity to change the situation of this country. 2023 election is an opportunity to move away and depart from the evils, the wickedness, the darkness that bedeviled our nation for the last seven to eight years. “2023 election is an opportunity to choose whether we want banditry to continue, kidnapping to continue, whether we want terrorism to continue, underdevelopment to continue, massive corruption to continue, nepotism, clanistic operations, regionalism and all these kind of things to continue or whether we want a complete total departure. “When we see the candidates that are presented for presidential election, it is very very clear. We are having choices between people that have issues that we know and people that have records that are clean and untainted. “It is a choice to make and it is very very clear. It is a choice between corruption and incorruption, it is the choice between light and darkness, it is the choice between progress and retrogression, it is a choice between the old order and a new order.” He warned that if Nigerians choose the old order, the old way of doing things, “if we choose expired, retired people who should be resting and bring them back, that means we are ready to continue in their adversity and calamity. “But if we choose people with proven result, proven credibility, proven integrity, if we choose people with proven track records, with a heart for the people, then we have the opportunity to change things,” he said. He called on all Nigerians to rise, pick up their PVCs and vote the right candidate. “Ensure you inform all your brothers, sisters to the grassroots in the village, tell them who to vote, tell them how to vote, show them the logos to vote for a change in our nation in this season and by the mercies of God, I believe that change is here,” he prayed. Speaking on the crusade with the theme “Light has come”,  Enenche said it is expected that at the end of the Programme, “individual lives will experience light, communities, families will experience light. Communities represented will experience light and the state as a whole will experience the light of the gospel that will dissipate darkness of wickedness, darkness of witchcraft, darkness of underdevelopment and any form darkness that is holding our lives back.”