By Henry Uche, Lagos Chiahanam Nwobodo from the University of Nigeria, Ridwan Oladimeji Sulayman from the University of Ilorin and Oluwagbemisola Akinjobi, from the University of Ibadan, have emerged winner, first runner up and second runner-up, respectively, at the Jemila Abubakar Memorial Essay (JAME) competition. The trio received prizes of ₦200,000; ₦150,000 and ₦100,000, respectively, at its third edition of the Award and Special Investiture Ceremony at the International Conference Centre, University of Ibadan recently, in honour of Miss Abubakar, the organisation’s pioneer program manager, who passed away in July 2020 after a brief illness. Speaking at the event, the founder/ CEO, Asido Foundation, Jibril Abdulmalik, expressed optimism that mental health awareness would continue to grow. He urged Nigerians to show empathy, love, and understanding towards individuals and families affected by mental health issues, despite the pervasive shame, stigma, and discrimination that exist in our society. “Let us continue to support mental health awareness,” he stated. The Asido Foundation also honoured various dignitaries as Special Ambassadors for Mental Health at the event, which includes: Her Excellency, Chief Mrs Ajibola Lawal, Senator (Dr) Ibrahim Y Oloriegbe, Prof Oye Gureje, Prof Idowu Olayinka, Prof Taiwo Lateef Sheikh, HRH Prof Halidu Abubakar, Dr Anthony Marinho, Professor Cheluchi Onyemelukwe, and Dr Kolade Mosuro. The JAME competition is an essay competition centred on a topical mental health issue, organised annually by the Asido Foundation for undergraduate students of Nigerian tertiary institutions. The competition supports youth mental health capacity building, which is intended to improve Nigerian youths’ mental health awareness and knowledge. The JAME competition received an impressive number of entries from various tertiary institutions across all thirty-six Nigerian states. Almost two thousand (2000) entries were received, making the competition one of the largest of its kind in the country. “The top 15 entries will also benefit from a one-year mentorship program to help them become mental health advocates. This program will equip them with the necessary skills and knowledge to create a positive impact on mental health awareness and advocacy in Nigeria,” Abdulmalik,” Abdulmalik stated.