A  foremost aircraft management and charter flight company, Leading-Edge Aviation, has emerged as best operator in the Charter Flight Category of the Nigeria Aviation Awards. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The company won the Charter Flight Award at the 12th edition of the Nigeria Aviation Awards and Ministerial Dinner in Lagos on Saturday. Leading-Edge Aviation emerged as the best among the over eight companies voted in the category. According to the organisers of the award, Leading-Edge got 180 votes, followed by Executive Jet with 117 votes, Dornier Aviation got 33 votes, while Arik Air Executive Jet Charter got 29 votes.  Easy Jet got 13 votes while Fly West Link Airlines got and PrivateFly got five votes each respectively, among others. The award was presented to the company on behalf of the organisers by a former Managing Director of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, Mr Richard Aisuebeogun. Receiving the plaque for the award on behalf of the company, the Executive Director, Human Resources and Administration, Leading-Edge Aviation, Mrs Olusola Ogunseye, appreciated the organisers for recognising the firm’s achievements.      According to her, the award is a call on the company to raise the bar of service, promising that Leading-Edge will not disappoint its numerous customers and the country. “We dedicate this award to our numerous customers and other stakeholders in the aviation sectors who are working to raise the bar of service in the airline and charter aviation segment.” Also commenting on the award, the Managing Director, Leading-Edge Aviation, Mr Victor Mgbachi, said the company would continue to give its best to its customers and the airline industry. He said, “ We will continue to give our best to the industry. This award is a call to do more and we thank the organisers for recognising our efforts.” Over 50 awards were presented in various categories at the event. The Chairman, Nigerian Aviation Event Committee, Mr Fortune Idu, said the organisers of the award would continue to recognise companies raising the bar of service and safety in the aviation industry.  The Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, who was also at the event, called on airline operators and other key stakeholders in the aviation industry to contribute to the ongoing review of the civil aviation regulation for a safe, secured and profitable aviation sector. The NIGAV Award 2022, the 12th in the series has the theme: “Coming of A New Era”. While assuring the commencement of the airport city project called the aerotropolis in Lagos and Abuja airports, Sirika, emphasised that the current administration would achieve the national carrier, aircraft leasing company and Maintenance Repair Overhaul Facility, MRO projects. In a keynote address, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, represented by Mrs. Folake Joshua said, the aviation sector is at the centre stage of President Muhammadu Buhari led administration because it holds the power to accelerate development and rapid economic growth of the country. Sirika was presented with the award as the Aviation Man of the Year, 2022 for his immense contributions to the development of the sector. Also, the Director-General, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, Capt. Musa Nuhu; Managing Director, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, Capt. Rabiu Yadudu; Ag. Managing Director, Nigerian Airspace Management Agency, Mr. Mathew Pwajok; Director-General, NiMet, Prof. Mansur Matazu; and the Director-General, NSIB, Mr. Akin Olateru,  won awards for their immense contributions to the safety and development of the sector in the past eight years.