•He’ll sweep polls –Shekarau, Wali Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Desmond Mgboh, Kano and Sola Ojo, Kaduna  The Joint Action Committee of Northern Youth Associations has adopted the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar. Its convener, Murtala Abubakar, who addressed a press conference, yesterday, at Arewa House, Kaduna, said they arrived at the choice given Atiku’s vast knowledge of Nigeria’s political, economical and geographical spaces having served as vice president for eight years. The group said Atiku has been on the ballot as presidential candidate twice, claiming he was the leading candidate in  Saturday’s poll which would be his third. The northern group said Atiku was not going to rely on anyone or groups to teach him how to lead Nigeria if he wins.  “With this endorsement, we are assuring all Nigerians, especially southerners that when Atiku is elected and sworn to office, which Nigerians would do on Saturday peacefully, we would hold his legs to the fire and ensure he remains the leader for all we have known him to be. We assure all that Atiku will not let them down,” the group said. Meanwhile, Former Kano State governor, Malam Ibrahim Shekarau, has said Atiku would win. Shekarau, senator representing Kano Central, spoke at an interactive session with the media, yesterday, saying all indications point to an end of APC era and the return of the PDP to power.  Also speaking at the parley, Nigeria’s former foreign affairs minister, Ambassador Aminu Wali, also said Atiku would win. Shekarau declared that an Atiku presidency would address the challenge of insecurity bedeviling the country. He said one of the cardinal focus of the Atiku’s presidency would be to unite the country. He said it was obvious that issues of unity and peaceful co-existence represents one of the fundamental challenges facing the nation at the moment. The former Kano governor also listed the provision of quality and affordable education at all levels as another area that would receive immediate attention by the  Atiku administration.  He assured that Atiku would devolve power to constituent part, revive the nation’s collapsed economy through the provision of steady power supply  and implement policies that would relief Nigerians of their present anguish.