•PDP candidate in igala rejects results From Emmanuel Adeyemi, Lokoja  Candidate of African Democratic Congress (ADC), Elder Leke Abejide, has won the House of Representatives election in Yagba federal constituency of Kogi State. Abejide won in all three local government areas in the federal constituency (Mopamuro, Yagba West and Yagba East) in a landslide victory. The results were announced by the INEC collation officer, Dr. Okpanachi Stephen on Sunday in Isanlu, headquarters of the Federal Constituency. “Hon. Abejide polled 23271 votes to defeat his closest rival and candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Folorunsho Olafemi who garnered 10426 votes.” Candidate of the PDP) in the race, Hon. Tolorunjuwon Faniyi managed to poll 6421 votes to come a distant third. However, Ibrahim Shaaba of the PDP lost his  koton/ lokoja federal seat to  Aliyu Aguye of the APC while  Central senatorial district election between Natasha Akpoti of PDP and Saliu Ohere of the APC is still ongoing as at the time of filing in this report on Sunday evening.  It was also gathered that election in some polling units in the eastern senatorial district is still ongoing as INEC cancelled the results of some polling units due to violence.  Victor Adoji is the candidate of the PDP while Isa Echocho is the candidate of the APC. Meanwhile, candidate of the PDP for Dekina/Bassa Federal Constituency, Usman Austin Okai, has rejected the result on the ground of wanton irregularities. Okai who disclosed this on Sunday in Anyigba, said the exercise was replete with wanton irregularities in most wards in Dekina Local Government Area and therefore, requested INEC to cancel the results and order a rerun. He alleged that the APC thugs attacked the polling units, carted away polling materials and in some cases, made away or destroyed boxes with thumb-printed ballot papers and disrupted the voting process in various wards. He enumerated the wards to include Odu ward one and Two, Anyigba ward, Egume ward, Dekina Ward, Oganenigu ward and Abocho ward. According to the PDP House of Representatives candidate, to make matters worse,  he alleged that some electoral officers and security officers supervised some groups of people who thumb printed for the APC candidate unhindered.