Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. By Henry Uche Saddened by the current unprecedented economic hardship and storms ravaging country, Nigerians in Diaspora are leaving no stone unturned to ensure that Nigerians get it right at the polls come February, 25. In a virtual town hall session put together by Africa Leadership Group -ALG (Nigeria Leadership Series) in collaboration with Rebuild Nigeria Initiative (RNI), different Diaspora Groups sent a stern warning to eligible voters who are ready to sell their votes for a piece of meal, as well as desperate politicians, agents and other persons who are bent at suppressing, intimidating and/or coercing voters during the election, to desist forthwith. The Groups at the high level session were: International Committee on Nigeria (ICON); AfricaFora; Global Coalition on Security and Democracy in Nigeria (GCSDN); Collaborative Council of Nigerians in Diaspora (CCND); Southern African Union of Nigerian Communities (SADU Union); Nigerians in the Diaspora Organization (NIDO): MN & SS Chapter; Purple Women Foundation, Linkway Diplomats and Jewels of Africa. In other to have a place to proudly call ‘My Home’, the Groups said they’re are mobilising resources to see that Nigeria’s multilayered problems are fixed from the polling boots, hence they believe that a progressive nation is primarily a function of competent leaders. They expressed sadness over their inability to vote in the coming general elections despite remitting billions of naira to the Nigerian economy, saying, “We contribute hugely to the economy of our country – Nigeria, yet we cannot vote from here, this would be the last time Nigerians in Diaspora would not be allowed to vote,” As interested Nigerians in the coming elections, they urged the United States of America to maintain their words of “Closing their doors against bad actors (politicians and others)” in the coming general elections, adding that it would be even ideal if more countries would come up with Visa ban against political desperadoes. In an opening remark, the Chairman & Founder of Africa Leadership Group (ALG), Pastor Ituah Ighodalo, frowned at the level of pains Nigeria’s leaders had subjected the masses to, saying, “The tension in Nigeria is so much. The ruling party has slowed down the economy using the instrumentality of monetary policy, the dearth of PSM(fuel), gas, diesel and other essential commodities,” Pastor Ighodalo who spoke on “State of the Nation” encouraged Nigerians not to lose hope though the economy has been crippled; assuring that Nigeria would be great again, “Nigeria is at the edge, however we must not lose hope.” Taking their turns, The Global Coalition on Security & Democracy in Nigeria (GCSDN) affirmed that it has endorsed the Presidential Candidate of Labour Party, Mr. Peter Obi who has promised Nigerians in Diaspora that they would certainly vote in Nigeria’s general elections come 2027. Recall that the ninth National Assembly failed to pass the bill seeking to enable Nigerians in Diaspora to vote after all pressure from different quarters. Speaking for GCSDN, Fredrick Odorige, said, “Mr. Obi has assured Nigerians in Diaspora of participating in 2027 general elections and such would be fully electronical. We want to let our northern brethren know that this is a simple election, it’s not as jihad, we are one people, we will not allow anybody to divide us with religion or ethnicity. However, we shall keep using the social media to educate people back home,” Similarly, Prince Akinwale of Diaspora Innovation Institute, encouraged Nigerians overseas to deploy their knowledge to educate Nigerians back home. “We are sitting on the floor sadly (if I may use the word) in the scheme of things. Nigerians must not make mistake again. We need to contribute not only money but human capital,” he urged. Lending his voice, Nelson Aliya urged his fellows and altruistic Nigerians at large to be organised and intentional in what they do. “Those who doesn’t want to see good things happen in Nigeria are organised and intentional, so we too must,” he implored. To underline the importance of the coming general elections, a don, Zee Nagberi, emphatically avowed that if Nigerians of today gets it wrong at the polls, generations to come would forever not take it slightly. “Nigeria is in the global news sadly, if we don’t fix it now, our children and grandchildren would hold us responsible. So let’s all hands be deck. This is our chance,” he charged. A broadcaster and Founder of Purple Women Foundation, Ireti Bakare- Yusuf, who spoke on ‘Misinformation’ warned against perpetrators of fake news; pre- elections, during and after the elections. “We must use every resources within our reach to kill fake news and those planning to use such scheme to distort the polls will not succeed. We know the difference between genuine and fake news, so many interest groups are monitoring the election” she added. For the Convener, South East Presidential Mandate, Benedict Onyewuenyi, said people choose who to follow especially during campaigns. “Even the devil has its followers, so we shouldn’t be surprised who is following who, however we must not follow the wrong way,” The Secretary General, Council for African Security Affairs, Professor Oludare Ogunlana, said his group would be sharing intelligence with relevant bodies in support of credible, free and fair elections. “We are monitoring the process, we have counter – narrative against misinformation and shall be working with appropriate authorities.” Other participants stressed that if Nigeria fails to get it right, Africa would continue to be relegated among the comity of nations. They also vowed to resist those planning to scuttle the general elections as Diaspora groups like International Committees on Nigeria (ICON) are developing Apps to monitor, record and document the events before, during and after the elections, all efforts are geared towards electing the right leaders who would redeem Nigeria from its present Socio -economic miseries.