Idowu Iluyomade, an accomplished lawyer, Pastor-in-Charge of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, RCCG Region 20, Head of Apapa Family and the Senior Pastor of City of David, a mega parish of the RCCG (RCCG) in Oniru Estate, Victoria Island, Lagos, is a man that has been described as a figure with an unbridled passion to extend the frontiers of hope. When on that Sunday, February 14, 2016 —a day the world was celebrating love called St. Valentine’s Day, Pastor Iluyomade invited hundreds of business magnates, political icons, technocrats, and top Pastors inside a makeshift tent on fast developing Eko Atlantic in Victoria Island, Lagos, it was not for a carnal celebration of love but to raise about N14 billion for a project: The City of David new sanctuary and a timeless corporate skyscraper to be called Trinity Towers! Of course, the staggering amount got many ears tingling and mouth agape, wondering. But for the eloquent and charismatic Pastor Iluyomade, and his congregants at the City of David, embarking on a mega billion naira complex for religion, work and leisure is a worthy investment in the kingdom of God. Exactly seven years later, this divinely inspired enterprise is ready and commissioned in grand style. On Sunday 12 February, it was an ecstasy of a sort as hundreds of prominent Nigerians converged again to celebrate the Lord’s doing amidst pomp and pageantry. The 14-floor Trinity Towers features an auditorium with a seating capacity for 4,500 congregants which can also be hired as a concert hall. It also comprises a multi-storey car park that can take up to 673 cars, Rooftop terrace, helipad, automated and integrated lighting and other modern gadgets. The official opening and dedication of the great structure was done by the General Overseer of the church, Pastor Enoch Adeboye and his wife, along with other distinguished personalities including Nigeria’s Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, and Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Pastor Iluyomade took the dignitaries round to view the aesthetics of the complex —eventually built at a cost of over N12 billion and solely funded by members of the City of David Parish. Described as the best in the country, the complex is expected to generate income for the church’s many charitable projects.