From Okey Sampson, Umuahia Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The governorship candidate of Action Alliance (AA), John Okoro Chijioke, has urged Governor Okezie Ikpeazu to intervene in the prevailing scarcity of Naira notes, by making a state broadcast, urging people of the state to continue to accept the N200 old naira notes which he said some people have been rejecting. The appeal Chijioke said became necessary due to the sufferings of the people of the state occasioned by the naira scarcity. “Governor Okezie Ikpeazu should make a broadcast to the people of Abia, urging those who are rejecting the old N200 note to start accepting them in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s broadcast.” While fearing the sufferings being presently experienced in the state as a result of the naira scarcity may degenerate into violence, the AA Governorship candidate urged the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to make available more naira notes to alleviate the sufferings of the people. “I’m afraid if the CBN does not address the present scarcity of the naira notes, the sufferings associated with it may degenerate into violence in the state.” Chijioke stated that despite the sufferings of the people, he supported the currency swap policy, as apart from curbing the issue of vote buying during elections, it has greatly discouraged kidnapping. “Despite the fact that the currency swap policy has caused sufferings amongst Nigerians, the good thing about it is that apart from curbing vote buying during elections, it has already discouraged kidnapping as kidnappers would not accept the transfer of funds.” Chijioke who is also the Director General, Importers Association Special Task Force on Anti Smuggling (IASTFAS), rued the activities of Point of Sales (POS) agents who he accused of ripping the people, leveraging on the naira scarcity. “The POS agents are not good, they are ripping off the people because of the present naira scarcity. It is worrisome that Naira now costs higher than dollars.” He commended the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for clamping down on those who are hoarding and selling the naira notes and urged them to continue.