•Count us out –APC From Fred Itua, Abuja Civil Society Organisation,  Make A Difference Initiative (MADI), has alleged attempts by the deputy governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu State, George Ogara, to use judicial processes to defame the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Peter Mbah. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Executive director of MADI,  Lemmy Ughegbe and, a director in the CSO, Babawale Okunola, urged the Legal Practitioners Disciplinary Committee (LPDC) to immediately investigate Ogara for gross violation of the rules of professional conduct for legal practitioners, by supplying false information to mislead the court and defame Mbah. Mbah had in January, filed a petition against Ogara and another legal practitioner, Ejike Obumneme, for filing and promoting a suit that they allegedly knew or reasonably ought to know is false and intended to mislead the court and maliciously injure his person. The petitions were sequel to a lawsuit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/2257/2022 filed by Obumneme on behalf of Felix Ugwu and others seeking Mbah’s disqualification from the 2023 governorship election on the grounds that he made a plea bargain and a plea of guilty also entered for him in Charge No. FHC/L/09C/2007 by the Federal High Court on July 7, 2015. According to the suit, the alleged judgement makes Mbah a convict and ineligible to stand for a governorship election. Lemmy, while fielding questions from newsmen, condemned the continued attempt by some desperate and unscrupulous judicial officers to undermine the country’s electoral process and democracy by their misuse of the judiciary, abuse of court processes, and flagrant breach of the Nigeria Bar Association’s Rules of Professional Conduct 2007. “This is vividly exemplified by the malicious suits filed for some persons by one Ejike Obumneme, a legal practitioner and obviously masterminded by one George Ogara, said to be the deputy governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu obviously to gain an undue political advantage over the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the same state, Dr. Peter Mbah.  “In this instance, Ejike Obumneme filed a suit in the Federal High Court Abuja on behalf of Felix Ugwu & Others in Suit No. FHC/ABJ/CS/2257/2022 seeking a declaration that by the express provisions of Section 182(1)€ of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended), Dr. Peter Mbah, is ineligible to contest election to the office of Governor of Enugu State until after a period ten years from 7th day of July 2015. They alleged that he made a plea-bargain and a plea of guilty was entered on his behalf on July 7, 2015 in Charge No. FHC/L/09C/2007 supposedly preferred against him by the Federal High Court, hence he is an ex-convict. The plaintiffs further alleged that Justice M.N Yunusa of the Federal High Court found Peter Mbah guilty in the said Charge No. FHC/L/09C/2007 and consequently pronounced sentence of forfeiture of assets on him. “However, a Certified True Copy of court ruling obtained by us clearly show that Peter Mbah did not undergo any trial, let alone enter into any plea-bargain, as he was discharged from the said suit about two years before the said plea-bargain of July 7, 2015. “Clearly, those facts were to Ogara’s and Obumneme’s knowledge false.” However, Fidelis Edeh, director general of APC Governorship Campaign Organisation in Enugu State has said they were not a party to any suit challenging the candidacy of Mbah. He said the right thing to do was for the parties to be taken to court to defend themselves.