From Gyang Bere, Jos Plateau youths under the the APC  on Wednesday vowed to deliver the state to the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and the Governorship candidate, Dr. Nentawe Yilwatda during the February 25 and March 11, 2023 elections. APC youths leader, Plateau State, Comrade Nanloh Joseph Dashe disclosed this during a strategic engagement with youths from electoral wards from Plateau North Senatorial District. Dashe described the APC Presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as a detribalised Nigerian who has mentored alot of youths across tribal and religious lines and are currently contributing their quotas in nation building. He admonished youths in the state to discard religious and other sentiments and vote for the presidential candidate of the party, saying he is the only presidential candidate that has solutions to the country’s endemic challenges. He maintained that youths at the moment cannot afford to sit on the fence, and he charged them to seize the opportunity of the February 25th presidential election to vote for Asiwaju Tinubu, who has the passion and drive to meet the needs of the youths and create employment for them. “Asiwaju has done it before as a governor of Lagos State, where several youths were mentored. Most of those he mentored can be found in various fields of human endeavor, contributing their quotas to the development of Nigeria. The presidential candidate is familiar with the terrain and will not abandon the youth if voted into power.”  He enjoined youths in the party not to relent in their campaign for the presidential candidate and others on the platform of the party and assured them that their labour would not be in vain as they would be adequately compensated. He further narrated that the essence of the sensitization was to mobilize the youths to take the campaign to the polling units and to ensure that the message of the candidate got to the grassroots. “We have done it in the past; everyone knows that Plateau is for APC.” The same sensitization we carried out today will be replicated in other senatorial districts to ensure that those at the grassroots vote for Tinubu and Shettima. APC is not new to Plateau State; Governor Lalong has transformed the state, so winning the election will not be a difficult task. “After this exercise, 30 vote canvassers will be sent to all the polling units on the plateau to take the mandate as youths to the electorate to further drum up support for the APC,” he said. Speaking also, the executive chairman of Langtang North local government area, Hon. Bitrus Zulfa said the APC-led administration at the center has done well in the past seven years and advised other political parties to take a back seat to allow APC to continue on May 29, 2023. He said no Nigerian has impacted positively on fellow Nigerians like Tinubu, adding that his government was a miniature Nigeria where every section of the country was represented and that his political mentorship is worthy of emulation. Another  APC Youth leader Kelvin Pankshin said We in the APC have  the best candidates and marketing them would not be difficult. Our presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has a track record of success as well as our governorship candidate Dr. Nentawe Yilwatda. We would go to the nooks and crannies of the state to campaign and ensure victory for them as well as other candidates contesting under our platform. “All our votes would be delivered to our candidates who have been tested and trusted, the present governor, Simon Lalong has done well in bringing peace to Plateau and Dr. Nentawe Yilwatda would bring massive development to the state if  elected, we have confidence that Dr Nentawe would deliver dividends of democracy to the people of Plateau State.”