• Zulum announces N1bn relief From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja and Timothy Olanrewaju, Maiduguri. President Muhammadu Buhari has called for vigilance as winds and rising temperatures increase the risks of fires in forests, homes, public buildings and markets.  This is coming on the heels of fire outbreak which razed the popular Maiduguri Monday Market. In a statement by Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, he expressed grief over the destruction caused by the early morning fire, yesterday, saying the nation’s prayers and condolences are with the hardworking traders and their families who reportedly saved very little or nothing from the fire.  President Buhari commended the immediate response of Governor Babagana Zulum’s government to the incident and directed effective coordination and collaboration between federal and state agencies to bring needed relief to those who are affected.  The president urged the state and federal agencies responsible for fire management to strive towards higher levels of preparedness, mitigation efforts and strengthening their response mechanisms to deal with the increasing menace of market and other fire disasters. Meanwhile, Zulum has announced a relief fund of N1 billion to the affected traders. Zulum, in a statewide broadcast, said the money was to provide urgent support to victims, pending the assessment of the incident by a committee established to investigate the fire outbreak.  “We woke up today with a very sad and unfortunate fire disaster at the Maiduguri Monday Market. This is very unfortunate but we believe this is decreed by Allah,” Zulum said.  He said he appreciated how painful it is to work and build a business for years, and then lost all in fire outbreak, adding that he was deeply pained.  “…I know how bad you feel. I have approved the release of N1 billion as emergency relief for us to quickly support victims of the disaster,” he said.  Zulum said he understands some of the affected persons may have difficulty of surviving the next few days having lost their sources of survival.  Other measures announced by Zulum as responses, include assessment committee “to speedily assess damages, and take comprehensive list of those affected and their loses.” The governor also announced plan to see the president and seek for intervention and support for victims. He also said he will contact humanitarian establishments for help. He appealed to the people not to politicise the incident which sadly, he said, happened at a political time. His spokesman, Isa Gusau, also explained the deployment of security personnel to the scene was to prevent breakdown of law and order.  The Maiduguri Monday Market is the biggest and oldest in the North East. Established in 1979, the market provide jobs to over 10,000 people and a trading hub in the Lake Chad region.