Days to the election, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has been tipped to breast the tape ahead of his closest rivals.   According to a newly released poll conducted by the Freddan Continental Services, the APC flagbearer would  coast home to unassailable victory in 19 states  in the Saturday’s presidential election.      “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is projected to clinch nine states and the Federal Capital Territory while the Labour Party (LP) is tipped to win in eight states. The New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) is not favoured to win any state, even though it came second in Kano. The poll, published on the firm’s website – https://freddancontinentalservices.com –  said the APC candidate is favoured to win by 37 per cent of respondents in the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. It said the poll was conducted between January 7 and February 11 2023, using phone and online surveys. A total of 370,000 questionnaires were sent out, the firm noted, adding that 287, 033 were returned. Of the lot, 106, 764 respondents (37.2 per cent) were said to favour Tinubu’s emergence as President.  According to the survey, candidate of the LP, Peter Obi is favoured by 92, 127 (32.1 per cent) of the respondents, while former Vice President Atiku Abubakar of the PDP polled 88, 109 (30.7 per cent) in the survey. The NNPP candidate, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, secured 693 (0.23 per cent) in the survey. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The group said its team of data analysts, who conducted the poll, used four key variables, including political geography, religion, resources, and class.  The report said: “The survey was conducted via a combination of online and phone surveys. Our online surveys were administered through a secure web platform, and phone surveys conducted by trained staff, who are proficient in the three major Nigerian languages of Igbo, Hausa and Yoruba. In both cases, the surveys were designed to ensure that the results are accurate and unbiased. “We also focused on areas, such as the spread of the political parties, the incumbency factors in states, religion and the personality of the candidates. “We also identified, in the course of our online poll, the role of social media influencers, religious leaders, professional organisations, and the young population of voters and how it can impact on the victory of each of the leading candidates.” The poll is projecting victory for Tinubu and APC in six of the North-West states, including Jigawa (41 per cent), Kano (37 per cent), Kaduna (37 per cent), Katsina (51 per cent), Kebbi (39 per cent) and Zamfara (48 per cent.) It said PDP’s Atiku Abubakar will take Sokoto (46 per cent) The poll also gives Tinubu victory in three North East states of Borno (67 per cent), Yobe (61 per cent) and Gombe (47 per cent). The survey projects victory for PDP in Adamawa (57 per cent), Bauchi (44 per cent) and Taraba (37 per cent).  In the North Central, the survey forecasts Kogi (43 per cent), Kwara (51 per cent), Niger (43 per cent) and Nasarawa (46 per cent) for the APC candidate.  While LP is projected to win Plateau (35 per cent), the survey said PDP would likely take Benue, with LP also making a decent showing (32 per cent). In the South West, the survey gave all the states to the APC, with the party doing well in Ekiti (54 per cent), Lagos (52 per cent), Ogun (53 per cent), Ondo and Osun (48 per cent each), and Oyo (59 per cent.) In the South-East, Peter Obi and the Labour Party are the clear favourites, according to the survey, polling 63 per cent in Abia and Anambra, 57 per cent in Ebonyi, 56 per cent in Enugu and 59 per cent in Imo. In the South-South states, the survey tips PDP to win in Akwa Ibom (48 per cent), Bayelsa (45 per cent),Delta (43 per cent) and Edo (39 per cent.). Labour Party is projected to win in Cross River (40 per cent) and Rivers (52 per cent.)    The survey gives the PDP the victory in the Federal Capital Territory (39 per cent), with Labour Party taking the second position (33 per cent).