From John Adams, Minna  Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, yesterday, stopped the planned solidarity rally by the Tinubu/Shettima 2023 support group at New Bussa, Borgu Local Government Area over security concerns. The Support Group, Projects 774 had planned what it called “Grand Luckdown Rally” for the presidential candidate Bola Tinubu and his running mate, Kashim Shettima as well as the state’s governorship candidate and his running mate at the New Bussa township stadium, yesterday to mobilise supporters for the candidates. But as early as 7:00am, three Toyota Hilux Vans, each loaded with military and mobile policemen stormed the newly built New Bussa multi purpose sports complex, venue of the rally and sealed it up. The workers that came to arrange the venue ahead of the rally were prevented from entering the sports complex. The security men said the order to seal the venue was from above and therefore asked everyone to steer clear. A statement from the spokesperson of the police in the state, Wasiu Abiodun said the police had to take over the venue of the planned rally as proactive measure due to intelligence reports  on the likely breach of security. “We have to do the needful to avert any possible attack or hijack by suspected miscreants to cause mayhem and breach of peace in the community. The Command will not fold its hands and allow act of political violence, avoidable loss of life, destruction of properties and lawlessness,” Abiodun said. However a pointer to the stoppage of the rally emerged yesterday when the state chapter of the All Progressives congress (APC) disassociated itself from the eent.   State Working Committee of the party in a statement in Minna by the publicity secretary,  Mallam Musa Sarkindaji, had said: “The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Niger State under the leadership of Haliru Zakari Jikantoro has disassociated itself from lockdown rally organized in New Bussa, Borgu Local Government Area of the state. The party wishes to draw attention of all party faithfuls not to honour and attend such rally as it contravene with unified campaign structure as designed by the party.” The party instead urged its executives, stakeholders and party loyalists to attend the grand zonal rally scheduled for Wednesdayf February, 2 in  Bida, headquarters of Bida LGA.