From  Femi Folaranmi, Yenago  Nine senatorial candidates for the Bayelsa West district have stepped down for representing Bayelsa West in the forthcoming National Assembly election, Senator Henry Seriake Dickson The candidates of the affected political announced their withdrawal in a press statement issued at the end of a meeting with Dickson at Toru Orua, Sagbama Local Government Area on Thursday. The nine Candidates who have collapsed their structures into Senator Dickson’s Campaign Organization are  Ebikpolade Fuludu (ADC), Frank Odafe (AA), Alexander Pere, (ZLP), Dr. Joel Tubonimi, (NNPP), Chief Ikporo, (SDP), Amb. Victor Magbodo Ben (BOOT),  Oweifabo Felix Ebikeme (AAC), Dennis Enebi Michael (APN)  and Salo Orlando of APP. The group of candidates said that the decision to back out of the race to support Senator Dickson was informed by the  exemplary representation  he provided during his brief period at the National Assembly. Mr. Frank Odafe of the AA, who spoke for the group stressed that all the nine candidates had a fruitful deliberation with the bold, dynamic and articulate PDP candidate who governed the state for eight years and have decided to give him all the supports he requires to win the election. He said that Senator Dickson is the political leader in Bayelsa, a leader in the state and indeed the Ijaw nation who brought so much development during his period as Governor to the area. He stressed that it would be disrespectful to contest the election with him as he deserves all the support to continue with his quality representation. “We, the nine senatorial candidates of different parties in the forthcoming 25th February 2023 senatorial election, have stepped down for Senator Henry Seriake Dickson in the contest for the Bayelsa West Senatorial seat. We are announcing our decision after a meeting on Wednesday 15 February, 2023 with Senator Henry Seriake Dickson at his country home in Toru-Orua, Sagbama LGA. Our decision is based on our acknowledgement of the quality representation that Senator Dickson has provided within his brief period at the National Assembly. “We hereby endorse him as the candidate to represent Bayelsa West senatorial district at the National Assembly and pledge our total support to him. “Some of us have already sent letters of withdrawal from the senatorial contest to INEC while others will do same following this meeting.” The statement read Senator Henry Seriake Dickson who spoke to journalists shortly after the meeting  appreciated the candidates for the decision to step down for him in the general interest. The Senator directed the PDP Senatorial Vice Chairman. Mr Michal Magbisa to involve all party support in the final phase of the campaign in the various communities.