From Okey Sampson, Umuahia Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Imo State natives resident in Abia State have endorsed Governor Okezie Ikpeazu and Okey Ahaiwe for the Abia South senatorial and Abia State governorship elections, in that order. The Imo residents in Abia disclosed this during a town hall meeting with the Governor in Aba. They, before the endorsement, thanked Ikpeazu for appointing Imo natives in Abia into positions of trust. While adopting a motion moved in this regard by Frank Nnaoma from the Orlu zone and seconded by Egejuru Isdore from the Okigwe zone, the Imo indigenes added that they have also adopted other PDP candidates as their consensus candidates for the elections. “Based on the recognition Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has given to Imo indigenes residents in Abia State, we are adopting him and Okey Ahaiwe as our consensus candidates for the Abia South senatorial and Abia State governorship elections, respectively. “We are also adopting other PDP candidates for the elections. We commend the Governor for the massive road construction in the state and the peace he has brought to Abia State. “We don’t know where Imo people would have ran to if there was no peace in Abia State. We also thank the Governor for appointing an Imo indigene, Dr Osuji as the Commissioner for Health and giving him the support to excel. Ikpeazu has done well. We are solidly behind his Senatorial ambition.” Earlier, the Chairman of the Association of Imo indigenes in Abia State, Chief Macdonald Ogoke, explained that Ikpeazu has demonstrated that he values the contributions of the Imo people to the growth and development of Abia State. He wished Ikpeazu a successful transition and entry into the Senate and prayed that the love he had shown to Imo indigenes would be sustained by subsequent administrations in the state. Ikpeazu while responding, noted that Imo people constitute the highest number of non-indigenous residents in the state, and commended them for uniting under one umbrella to pursue their common interest. The Governor further expressed gratitude to the Imo people serving in his administration for their contributions. He urged Imo people to sustain their support for PDP candidates and assured that the party’s governorship candidate, Ahaiwe, will do more for them than he did in his administration. The PDP governorship candidate, Ahaiwe pledged to not to disappoint the Imo people but will double the benefits which they had gotten from the Ikpeazu administration if elected Governor and urged the people to sustain their support for other PDP candidates.