From Uche Usim Passengers who travelled through various airport terminals on Tuesday were met with a Valentine’s Day surprise as officials of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) gifted them rose flowers and other bags of gifts. In Abuja, the exercise was held at both International and Domestic Terminals of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport and was led by the FAAN acting General Manager, Corporate Affairs, Mrs Faithful A. Hope-Ivbaze and her staff in the Corporate Affairs Department. At random, staff and workers at the airport were approached, given gifts, and flowers and had photo opportunities with the FAAN staff. Speaking on the idea to celebrate customers and airport facilities users, Mrs Hope-Ivbaze said: “It is Valentine’s Day. On this day love is celebrated all over the world and the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) isn’t left out of the celebrations. We want to use Valentine’s celebrations to share the love with our passengers and our facilities users to let them know that we care, and we have their interest at heart.” “We present these beautiful rose flowers and a token gift to our passengers and some clients” she added. She also used the moment to assure passengers of seamless facilitations at the FAAN-managed airports across the country. Some passengers who received the gift items were excited about the gesture. Most of them say it’s a pleasant surprise and they haven’t experienced it before. A transiting passenger, a military officer from Chad, Major Mohammed, said he was excited about the kind gesture by FAAN. Also, Gladys from Chad said: “This is a pleasant surprise and Nigeria is a good country. “You have a big and beautiful airport. This warm welcome and flowers on Valentine’s day is the first surprise I received” she stated. Miss Olamide who was heading to Baghdad was just as excited. “This is the first time of experiencing this at the airport. I’m travelling to Baghdad and I really love the flower,” she said. Also, Dr Shane, a London-bound passenger said: FAAN just impressed me. For the first time, I experience this and this is very special. We will.do it again. Mr Idris, another passenger, said it was a “very nice experience. I’m a frequent traveller so I know what this means. Connecting to Passengers is great.” “We understand the trouble FAAN goes through on a daily basis to satisfy customers in spite of the limitations. Celebrating Valentine’s with customers that use the services is something that brings joy to me. It shows that you care for the customers” he stated further. For Chinechere, FAAN should keep being FAAN. “Keep working hard and keep loving each other,” she said. Mr Omodiame Raymond said FAAN surprised him. “I haven’t travelled on a Valentine’s Day and experienced this. This is my first time. FAAN is introducing new things to the travelling public and I wish them well,” he said. This year’s Valentine’s Day tagged FAANLentine was also celebrated across the other four international airports located in Lagos, Port Harcourt, Kano and Enugu. The same activities took place with other celebrities and OAPs sharing beautiful FAAN-branded rose flowers at Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano (MAKIA), Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, (AIIA) and Port Harcourt International Airport (PHIA), and Murtala Mohammed International Airport and the General Aviation Terminals, Lagos (MMIA and GAT).