•Niro, Niro EV and EV6 GT top contenders across 3 categories By Moses Akaigwe Three Kia models have been named among the finalists across three categories in the 2023 World Car Awards. The Kia Niro is among the list of finalists for the 2023 World Car of the Year, while its electrified variant, the Niro EV, is a finalist for the 2023 World Electric Vehicle category. And with a hair-raising 567 horsepower on tap, the EV6 GT is a finalist in the 2023 World Performance Car Category. “The awards were inaugurated in 2003, and officially launched in January 2004, to reflect the reality of the global marketplace, as well as to recognise, reward and inspire excellence, leadership and innovation in a rapidly changing automotive industry,” said Jens Meiners, chair, 2023 World Car Awards. The winners will be announced live at an awards ceremony at the 2023 New York International Auto Show on 5 April 2023. Kia is honoured to receive these nominations from the highly regarded panel of World Car Awards jurors. With all three finalists powered by electrification, the brand’s commitment and dedication to its “Plan S” strategy – to become a leading, sustainable mobility provider – is even more apparent as its hybrids, PHEVs and EVs continue to gain acclaim. The trio of finalists have already garnered critical acclaim and multiple awards across the globe. The EV6 awards cabinet is already bursting at the seams. Most recently, the EV6 GT took a second-place position in the “Mid-size and Luxury” category of Germany’s prestigious Golden Steering Wheel awards, won the award as the “Best EV of 2022” from The Drive, and was named North American Utility Vehicle of the Year by the North American Car of the Year jury. The all-new Niro is rapidly catching up to its sibling. Available with a choice of three electrified powertrains – hybrid, plug-in hybrid and all-electric – it was named a finalist for the European Car of the Year Award in November last year, was named Cars.com’s Best Car of 2023, and won the Golden Steering Wheel award in the “Compact SUV” category – a set of awards widely considered to be the most important automotive award in Germany. The Niro this week also bagged a category win as the Best Urban Model in the Women’s World Car of the Year competition and will continue to battle it out for the overall trophy of the Women’s World Car of the Year.