Christy Anyanwu Bona Expo100% botanical organic & natural Africa Expo pioneer Exposition in Africa for skin & hair care Green Beauty brands in Africa & by Africans on Tuesday held an African beauty forum and a beauty pop shop at GAC luxury showroom. Bona Expo in partnership with GAC motors decided to hold the event to deliberate, discuss landscape beauty in Nigeria, and discuss the financial forecast of green beauty in Nigeria as well as exploring raising capitals for locally and internationally for green beauty brands in Nigeria.  At a forum to herald the pop up store hosted by Chief Diana Chen, Chairman GAC Motors Nigeria, Choice International Ltd, she informs that she would assist the entrepreneurs in exploring and raising capital locally and internationally. According to her, there are different fairs and exhibitions they could attend in China and introduce their brands. Cynthia Odibeli, founder Bona Expo, said the automobile is particular about aesthetics; beauty is very particular about aesthetics. If you drive a lovely car you feel good. They both have things in common; it just feels good to align these two brands together, bona expo and GAC motors create some sort of shift in the narrative as it would to how people begin perceive African brands. The main Expo exhibition will be in June 23 and 25th at the landmark centre in Victoria Island” she said, Executive Director of Zenith Adaobi Stella Nwapa at the forum advised the entrepreneur to access loans given to female entrepreneurs. ”Outsiders come here to get our raw materials, they process it because they have equipment’s to do it there. By the time you access the loan, you do your business well and you could access loans from China through Chief Chen help”. said Zenith Bank Representative. Brands that exhibited their products are: Toriara Naturals Skin by KO Reclaim Essentials Amal Botanicals Shanyi Brands 24.8 Skin by Aisha Sublime Skin by Jumai Uncover Skincare Limited Beskinful May Emerald Dakore Beauty Modara Natural Skincare