Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. By Henry Uche The on-going discourse on the forthcoming general elections took a different dimension recently with dissecting voices giving reasons (why) Nigerians should be wary of America’s and other foreign nations’ influence (if any) towards February 25 elections. During a town hall zoom session put together by Africa Leadership Group-ALG (Nigeria Leadership Series) in collaboration with Rebuild Nigeria Initiative (RNI), with the theme, ‘The Global Implications Of Nigeria’s Election,’ many Nigerians across the globe expressed worry over what they tagged, ‘indirect & subtle interference’ by foreign countries in Nigeria’s elections over the years. Among these Nigerians, some believed that no power or force could decide their fate politically, thus they called on those who believe that there has been foreign influence and interference in Nigeria’s political space to jettison the thought but rather believe that Nigeria’s destiny resides in the hands of Nigerians. However, the first school of thought here recalled that there has always been an interplay between Nigeria’s political leaders and America’s which often time turn out sour for Nigeria in the long run. A case in sight was the conspicuous role the erstwhile president of America, Barrack Obama and the American government played that ushered in the current APC administration. It’s on record that Obama and Nigeria’s former president, Goodluck Jonathan had some disagreement over some salient issues (for dearth of space, we shall not delve into that), but then, the Secretary of State of Obama’s administration, John Kerry visited Nigeria in a broad day. On his visit, he only had discussions with the Nigerian northern governors; as reported, all efforts was designed and geared towards unseating Goodluck Jonathan, and they did, and ushered in President Mohammadu Buhari. Today, it’s widely believed that United States was instrumental to the emergence of Buhari -led government, and should be partly held responsible for the unimaginable agonies brought upon Nigerians by this crop of leaders. Because whatever happens in Nigeria has implications in Africa and the world to some extent- for obvious reasons. “But Whether or not we believe it, some world powers including America have economic interest in Nigeria, and because of this interest, they show concern for who becomes Nigeria’s president at every election,” some Nigerians have affirmed. At the session, some persons believe that Nigerians in Diaspora are aiding Nigeria’s oppressors (sadly), while some believed that Nigeria as at today have the capacity to take their destiny into their hands despite obvious or perceived foreign influence and interference. Recall that some strong foreign economies had in the past disassociated themselves from the economic woes of Africa, according to reports. Be it as it may, Nigerians have been challenged to look beyond foreign influence in the February 25 general elections and express their grief at the polling boots. It’s obvious Nigerians are willing to turn out en masse and cast their votes this time unlike the previous general elections. The reasons are not far -fetched (the suffering is scorching). About 93.5 millions Nigerians are eligible to vote in this election – This is according to INEC. The Commission has repeatedly assured Nigerians of its readiness to conduct free, fair and credible elections despite fear of possible electoral fraud. Nevertheless, Nigerians have called on interested foreign bodies to help in ensuring that INEC, its material and personnel are protected during and after the polls; ensure that all manner of electoral fraud are fiercely resisted and that misinformation during and after the elections should are countered with every intelligence possible. A Nigerian, Mr. Bimbola Ahiru, said, “It behooves on us to decide our fate. Our salvation lies in our hands. Let’s organized ourselves, be firm and take actions for good and resist evil doers no matter what guise they come,” Similarly, Samuel Dada, queried the rationale for depending on foreign to decide Nigeria’s fate, to him, if such existed, it was high time Nigerians rose and resist such interference. “We are the ones to vote, it’s what we produce as leaders that the international community would work with, and the quality of leaders we elect determine our international relationship and diplomacy. Let’s not deceive ourselves, let the revolution begin from the polling boots,” he charged. Responding, a former Assistant Secretary of State, U.S, Robert Destro, affirmed that America has always been interested in Nigeria’s economic and political affairs, but does not decide the fate of the country. According to him, God would bless Nigeria with Nigerians, therefore they should decide their fate, stressing that the U.S is always ready to help Nigeria particularly in the area of security, but Nigeria as a country must do the right thing at the right time. “It’s all about relationship. However we need people who can supply us with accurate, relevant and timely information; that is what most foreign groups need to help Nigeria from economic backwardness, but most time we get lost by the way and manner Nigeria does their things” he posited. On his part, a Founding member & Director of International Committee on Nigeria (ICON), Mr. Kyle Abts, maintained that America is not concerned about who wins the presidential seat, but if people’s votes count, the people’s desire would manifest. “Nigerians are in the driver’s seat, though Obi has gathered a lot of interest for Nigerians, but it depends on how ready INEC is for the polls. We can only be a voice and partner to help Nigeria” He maintained that Nigeria over time keep giving excuses over its inability to give itself sound governance, however it is yet another opportunity to change the ugly narrative in the body polity. Other participants at the high level session urged Nigerians to shun religion, ethnic and cultural bigotry and choose a man with compassion to heal the wounds of Nigerians. “It’s very clear even to the blind that Nigerians have been horribly wounded, in fact the wounds are suppurating. We need a man with the right balm, because Nigerians needs succor, we need solace, we need to heave a sigh of relief. “This election is garbage in, garbage out. Sound government or bad leadership are all functions of who we elect. Political leaders cannot give us what they don’t have. They can’t deliver beyond their content. Let elect candidates who are people – oriented, who can deliver us from the current economic morass” They maintained that some Nigerians lobby the U.S government even the United Nations who seems to keep quiet over certain disturbing issues happening in Nigeria particularly the insecurity problem. According to them, American government are always interested in Nigerians’ oppressors (Political leaders), and not on the welfare of citizens. The warned some Nigerians to be wary of ‘baits’ in disguise saying, “We must own our country. Let’s not sacrifice the ultimate (good governance in all ramifications) on the altar of immediate gratifications. Everyone is affected by the current economic comatose. The battle is between light and darkness, thus; let’s choose light against darkness, not only for ourselves, but for our children,” they added.