The Ministry of Mines and Steel Development (MMSD) has said the re-hatched mineral promotion clinic will go a long way in providing relevant informations about minerals availability in Nigeria. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Permanent Secretary, Dr Oluwatoyin Akinlade, stated this at the unveiling of the “Mineral Promotion, Sensitization and Dissemination Mineral Clinic in Abuja. Dr. Akinlade also emphasized that the mineral clinic would contribute meaningfully to the economic development of the country. “I am indeed highly delighted to be part of NGSA’s mineral clinic designed to provide a veritable opportunity for stakeholders to interact and be better informed on minerals in Nigeria” She said. “I believe it is aimed to diagnose and treat pertinent issues that affect the minerals and metal sector in Nigeria such as dearth of geosciences data, high cost exploration activities among others. The Permanent Secretary who was represented by the ministry’s Director Special Duty, Comfort Tabiwa commended the Nigeria Geological Survey Agency, NGSA, for the success recorded under the National Integrated Mineral Exploration Project (NIMEP), which has provided improved geoscience data that is attracting much investors to Nigeria. “I commend the Nigerian Geological Survey Agency (NGSA) for its numerous contribution in the development of the mining sector in the country” Dr. Akinlade stated. Dr. Akinlade expressed optimism that at the end of the event Nigerians and investors would have a better understanding about minerals in Nigeria that would lead to better economic decisions for the mutual benefits of all. “The sector is faced with many challenges especially funding but this has not deterred this Agency from making appreciable progress on many fronts.” She further commended the Nigerian Geological Survey Agency (NGSA) for its numerous contribution in the development of the mining sector. Earlier in an address of welcome, the Director General, Nigeria Geological Survey Agency (NGSA), Dr Abdulrazaq Garba, said data generated by the Agency prompted the organization of mineral clinics across the six geopolitical zones which was a huge success. Dr. Garba explained that over four hundred potential investors attended the mineral clinics and over one hundred samples of rocks and minerals were tested with Hand-Held XRF free of charge. “We are also making plans to extend such gestures to all the States of the Federation, this we believe will spur the desired goal in creating awareness, sensitization and dissemination of geoscientific data to the lowest level” He said. There were goodwill messages from raw materials and decongestion Agency (NASENI), Miners Association of Nigeria, Association of Women in Mining, among others.