The North East Development Commission (NEDC) has commenced a two-week training for 150 primary school teachers on the procedure of preparing pupils writing public and private  examinations. The commission also said it has concluded arrangements for disbursement of scholarship for Undergraduate, Masters and PhD applicants. Mrs Sandra Dagala, the Assistant Manager, Education Endowment Fund (EEF) in the commission, disclosed this in Yola on Wednesday at the  formal inauguration of the training. She said the training would expose the teachers on the technicalities and the nitty gritty of answering examination questions. She added that the commission would disburse scholarship to hundreds of postgraduate and undergraduate students of northeast extraction as part of the commission’s initiative towards promotion of education. Acvording to her, the EEF was established to fast track education interventions in the North East region. Dagala said that the commission also designed sports competitions in football, athletics, table tennis and lawn tennis to boost recreational activities. “The initiative would  promote societal bonds and self esteem among the younger generation in the region,” she said. She added that the commission would organise sensitisation campaign on the dangers of drug abuse to disable the minds of youths in the region. According to her,  the commission will soon provide classrooms, furniture and learning materials across 112 LGAs in the region. The Programme Coordinator, Mr Aminu Ciroma of the Modibbo Adamawa University, Yola, commended the commission and assured that the exercise would improve the capacity of teachers in the state. He described the training as one of the solutions towards addressing the problems affecting education sector in the  North East. According to him, at the end of the training teachers will be better equipped to step down to pupils in their respective schools. Mr Michael Tarfa, NEDC’s Adamawa Coordinator, said training of teachers was one of the pillars of the commission to ensure quality education in the region. He called on the teachers to actively participate, use the opportunity to improve themselves and make difference in their respective schools. On his part, Mr brahim Isah, Social Mobilization Officer of ADSUBEB, appreciated the support from NEDC for the refresher course for the teachers aimed at achieving quality education in the state. He said that the participants were drawn from 21 LGAs of the state for the training to help reduce massive failure of examination by pupils and students. Malam Auwal Sa’ad, a teacher, who spoke on behalf of the participants, appreciated the NEDC and Adamawa Government for the capacity building. Sa’ad described the workshop as excellent e rcise that would bring positive changes in their respective schools. (NAN)