From Paul Osuyi, Asaba The Association of Contributory Retirees (ACR) in Delta State has been divided following the purported endorsement of the governorship candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Ovie Omo-Agege who doubles as the Deputy Senate President. A section of the association, Local Education Authorities/Primary Schools Retirees being led by Mrs. Helen Ejieh, had in a meeting with Omo-Agege, purportedly claimed to be representing the general ACR and also declared their support for the APC candidate. But member of the local government arm of the ACR disassociated themselves from the endorsement, insisting that the teachers’ group of the association cannot speak on their behalf. In a press statement by Mr. Daniel Onosanimoni and Godwin Ekenini, chairman and secretary respectively of Local Government Contributory Retirees, maintained that members of the ACR were non-partisan in the political process. “We the local government arm of the Association of Contributory Retirees (ACR) wish to outrightly dissociate our members from the meeting between Mrs. Helen Ejieh, chairman, Contributory Retirees (Local Education Authorities/Primary Schools Retirees), her supporters/group (among the LEA/Pry. Sch. Retirees) and the Gubernatorial Candidate of the APC in Delta State, DSP Ovie Omo-Agege,” it stated. They stated that the Local Government Contributory Retirees is composed of all categories of local government employees who retired from the local government service of Delta State and are yet to draw their Pensions, adding that as a body they were not consulted nor was a part of the meeting at Ozoro “and therefore the teachers group of ACR cannot speak for us nor serve as our mouth piece. Whatever resolution reached is for the primary school teachers and should not be misconstrued as the decision of all local government retirees. “We are a non-partisan body that is poised for the payment of the pensions and gratuities of our members using only known legal and constitutional channels to press home our demands and we have not resorted to party politics by endorsing any political party or any governorship candidate for that matter. “We completely disown the contents of the press release/publicity that followed the said meeting as we remain neutral and apolitical in our approach and agitations for the payment of our pension entitlement. “We do not begrudge any person or group of persons from associating or holding political opinions. But we object to the use of our umbrella association and name in the promotion of the interests of a political party (the APC), among political parties on ground in Delta State. “While we concede that no pensioner of Delta State ought to be owed pensions, having served for 35 years or attained the age of 60 years, we therefore use this medium to urge the state government to expedite action with the technical committee put in place to clear the backlog of pension and gratuities owed the local government retirees in the state.” They commended the state government for a renewed commitment towards the payment of accrued rights of pensioners, especially, with the release of the 2 tranches of N2.5 billion each making a total of N5 billion lately for the payment of the accrued rights of local government and primary school teachers in the state. “The information at our disposal from our engagement with the Bureau of Local Government Pension at various times indicate that there are not more than 8,000 retirees yet to be paid. Our figures are not near 10,000 not to talk of the 50,000 cited in the news. And that the number is decreasing on monthly basis due to the enhanced fund release by the governor for the payment of accrued rights. “We therefore condemn in its entirety the attempt by the primary school teachers retirees arm to drag us into unwholesome politics and unnecessary heating up of the polity as we do not want to be caught in any guise, in the unfolding struggles and contests among political actors, since we are ordinary retirees supporting the government of the day to speedily pay our outstanding pensions. “Therefore, we once again deny and reject any attempt by Mrs. Helen Ejieh and her sympathizers to draw us into any political circus show,” they said.