…Says Senator has performed excellently to merit their votes Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. By Kenneth Udeh Senator Orji Uzor Kalu’s quest to return to the Senate to continue to represent the Abia North Senatorial District on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) received a boost at the weekend as he secured additional votes of confidence from the council areas and communities in the district. The council areas also endorsed other candidates of the APC contesting for the positions of House of Assembly and the Federal House of Representatives,  Hon. Otule Oji and Hon Daniel Okeke, both running to represent Ohafia South State Constituency and Arochukwu Ohafia Federal Constituency respectively. The people gave the endorsement and support when Senator Kalu visited Abiriba Town in conclusion of his campaign tour of wards in Ohafia Local Government Area. The ongoing tour saw Kalu, the Chief Whip of the Senate, visiting Amaogudu Ward 1; Amaogudu Ward 2 ;  Amaeke Ward 1; Amaeke Ward 2 and Agborji Ward on Friday where he interacted,  gave account of his three and half years scorecard, seeking their blessings ahead of the February 25 polls. References were made to Kalu’s exploits in Abiriba both as governor and currently as Senator by the people at all the wards he visited, after which the Senator Kalu’s return bid was unanimously ratified. Kalu’s first port of call was Amaogudu, where he was treated to the jubilant reception at Agbala Umuchukwu Square, like other subsequent wards he secured their express endorsement, he urged them to ensure that they have their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) and get ready to vote for the APC in the state at the election. Elder statesman and prominent Abiriba stakeholder, Hon. Chief Kalu Umeh spoke on Kalu’s impacts in education and achievements as governor of Abia State, saying that the community would support his return. He said: “Kalu has done well to merit our votes, his imprints alone in Abiriba when he was governor is enough, but as Senator he has increased his good works in our community. Aside from the roads, he has renovated the Amamba Ukpo community primary school at Amaogudu and shared learning materials,  textbooks and school bags to our children. We have unanimously taken it upon ourselves to make sure he returns to the Senate’’. Also, elder statesman, Hon. Agbai Kalu noted that the last time the community felt state government’s impact was about 30 years ago when Kalu was governor, mentioning the roads, water boreholes built in Abiriba, including the free education policy and workers welfare implemented under Kalu’s tenure. He stated that Kalu’s tenure at the Senate has brought them good tidings, which makes Kalu deserving of their votes. “We were made not to feel the impact of the state Government’s neglect with Kalu being at the Senate through some of his projects in Abiriba apart from the solar lights , bills and motions.  “He has given us roads like the construction of Agboji-Abiriba road; Bourdex road by Bourdex Event center and Amangwu Amaogudu township road. Currently he has sponsored a bill for the establishment of a Federal institution in Abiriba which is a Federal Polytechnic, we have no other option than to give him our votes so all these can be actualized,” Agbai said. Asides infrastructure, former stakeholder of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Ndubuisi Emeh announced that he had left the party, describing his former party as deceitful especially to the people of Abiriba. He lauded the Chief Whip for the sense of belonging he gave to Abiriba during his tenure as governor through the appointment of its indigenes as commissioners and other positions, adding that he has continued to do so as a lawmaker by engaging one of its own as its official photographer. Emeh said: “Today, officially confirms that I have left the PDP to join the OUK Movement of Orji Kalu. Kalu gave us a sense of belonging with projects and appointments both as governor and now Senator. “Abiriba indigenes were given appointments when he was our governor,  the likes of former commissioners for information,  Dr Agbai Eke; Education and Vice Chancellor, Abia State University, Prof Agu Mpka, including George Nnanna and so many others. Our people have decided to give him all our votes.” Also former Commissioner for Works and Transportation, Hon. George Nnanna,  spoke of Kalu’s legislative performances and endorsed his candidature. At Amaeke, the women folk also spoke of Kalu’s exploits, as the  Women Leader, Joy Agwara said: “Orji Kalu is my mentor. In 2019, I trekked with him on some of our untarred roads to campaign, but today he has done those roads. The Ndi Okoronta – Amaeke road has also been completed. His votes will be massive come February 25.” Senator Kalu expressed gratitude to them, assuring of his plan to continue with the ongoing projects in the council area. The former Abia governor said that he had demonstrated his love for Abiriba, challenging them to name a single project executed in their locality by any state government except the ones he did as governor of the state. He urged them to ensure that they have their PVCs ready to vote for his party. At all the wards, members and executives of the APC, OUK Movement,  Reality Organisation,  supporters and residents gathered in large numbers to welcome the Senator and his team.