From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja Former minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, has admitted that he did not only goof but was not circumspect in accusing the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, of having secret meeting with army generals over possible coup in the country. Though he described his interrogation by officials of the Department of State Service (DSS), yesterday, over the issue as thorough, he said it was an experience he would never wish his enemy to go through. Fani-Kayode stated this at a press conference after his release by the DSS at the national headquarters of the APC. The Director of Special Projects and New media of the Tinubu/Shettima Presidential Campaign Council, said he would urge former Vice President Abubakar to submit himself for interrogation over fraud allegations against him.  “I have nothing to hide. And though it was very difficult, I have been interrogated by many security agencies, the police, EFCC in the last 15 years. I have been incarcerated, been in and out of detention, I have seen all sorts, but let me tell you, the place anybody doesn’t really want to go, I would suggest is probably the DSS. It is a very very challenging place to have to go. But, I thank God that it went well. And let me say this, I would have been more circumspect in handling this issue, especially as it bothers on national security,” he said. Reacting to the statement by the PPD presidential campaign council that he wasn’t working alone, Fani-Kayode said whatever the main opposition party was insinuating meant  nothing to him. “Now my response to that is this. And I hope some of you are familiar with Shakespeare because I love Shakespeare responses. This is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying absolutely nothing. If anybody should be investigated, arrested, prosecuted and jailed, it should be their presidential candidate. Why? Because he confessed in a tape, which we all heard, speaking about how he defrauded the whole country and stole public funds through SPVs. “We have discussed this before. So before any of them will cast aspersions against any of us, whether our candidate, our media directors, our party or any of our party leaders. Let Atiku come and explain this SPVs and let him subject himself to investigation just as I have done, and let others that have refused to go to the DSS when they were called in, let them show a bit of courage, you know who these people are, I don’t want to mention names.”