From Godwin Tsa, Abuja The Abuja division of the Federal High Court has returned Ali Bello, a nephew of the Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, and other defendants in the alleged N3 billion money laundering charge, back to prison, pending the hearing and determination of their bail applications. Meanwhile, Justice Obiora Egwuatu has reserved ruling on their bail applications to February 20. They were arraigned before the court on a 18-count charge filed against them by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Before now, Justice Obiora Egwuatu had, on February 8, remanded the defendants at the Kuje prison, after they entered their plea of not guilty to the charge. At Tuesday’s proceedings, counsel to the defendants, Ahmed Raji, SAN, begged the court to release them on bail on liberal terms. Raji, while contending that the charge contained bailable offences, pledged to ensure the availability of the defendants for their trial. He told the court that the defendants were subject of an investigation by the EFCC for over a year, saying they neither hindered nor interfered with the process. Raji further drew attention of the court to the fact that the anti-graft agency had earlier granted administrative bail to the defendants, adding that one of them was even permitted to travel to Saudi Arabia. He stressed that the defendants did not escape from the country, but kept all terms of their administrative bail. Raji, therefore, pleaded the court to exercise its discretion in favour of the defendants, by ordering their release from custody. But responding, the prosecution counsel, Mr. M.K. Hussein, opposed the defendants’ application for bail, insisting that they posed a flight risk.  EFCC told the court that the defendants have the means and capacity to interfere with its proposed witnesses, if granted bail. Rather, the anti-graft agency urged the court to order an accelerated trial of the defendants. After he had listened to both parties, Justice Egwuatu adjourned the matter for ruling.