From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The National Security Council (NSC) has assured that the presidential and National Assembly elections billed for Saturday, February 25, 2023 will hold as scheduled. Briefing State House Correspondents  on the outcome of the maiden meeting in 2023 presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Council Chambers of the State House, Abuja, Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, said the meeting was fully briefed by the Chief of Defence Staff, the three service chiefs, Inspector-General of Police and heads of other security agencies, about  their readiness to provide the necessary security back up for Saturday’s poll. He said flowing from this, the Council gave a marching order that the February 25 election should hold as planned. According to him, the Council’s meeting was a follow up to earlier meetings of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) and the Council of States held last week to affirm the readiness of the electoral body, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Police and security agencies to go ahead with the general elections in the country.  “Now out of desire to further consolidate and appraise the comprehensive and general preparation of the system, relating to the conduct of the election, this meeting, which is third in series of appraising and reviewing the state of preparedness is called upon by the President, which is the National Security Council meeting.  “At the National Security Council meeting, briefings were made by security agencies generally and service chiefs. National Security Adviser made submission; Chief of Defense Staff made one; Chief of Army Staff made submission; Chief of Naval Staff made submission, Chief of Air Staff did; Inspector-General of Police, who incidentally is equally addressing you, made submission; Director-General, State Security Service did; and indeed DG NIA and CDI all made submissions.  “The summary and conclusion of all submissions was to the effect that the system is wholeheartedly ready for the conduct of the election and arising there from, the position of the government, the position of the President is to the effect that the election is holding of the 25th day of February, 2023 and Mr. President and the National Security Council are happy with the preparations on the ground and wholehearted arrangements are put in place in that direction.  “So we have been mandated, arising from the conclusions of the Security Council meetings to now brief you accordingly, but the summary of it, the conclusion of it, the resolution of the Council, is to the effect that the elections are holding and there is no going back about it”, Malami said.  Also, the IGP, Usman Baba, reeled out the instructions given to security agencies to make the elections credible, peaceful and acceptable, including ensuring that Nigerians have an atmosphere where they can go out to cast their votes without intimidation, as well as provide adequate security to INEC, its staff and materials, among others.  “As for specific instructions, yes we have specific instructions. The specific instruction is that we must ensure that Nigerians are allowed to come out and exercise their franchise or vote the leaders of their choice and for that we must create a conducive environment or atmosphere for Nigerians to exercise their right. “We must also provide protection for INEC materials and officials to do their work. We must ensure that before, during and after the election, whatever fallback it is, we do not have people who will take the laws their hands and if there is any, we should be able to check within the quickest possible means to ensure that it does not snowball into a bigger crisis”, Baba disclosed. Responding to a question about allegation against governors inciting violence over the cash scarcity crisis, Baba said “we are investigating. Whoever does anything can be investigated, but for him to be prosecuted, there are people who have immunity, I think that is some of the reasons, but that will not stop us from cautioning them, from warning them and from advising them and we are doing so. That’s for incitement by governors”. On the presence of military men on the streets of Lagos and Abeokuta in Ogun State, following recent unrest in both places, Baba said “these are joint operations, aimed at stabilizing the internal security order before the election, these are not operations that are targeted at the election. “But it is targeted at stabilizing the situation, especially the one that came up as a result of the currency swap or whatever we can call it, where people go on vandalizing, destroying and even committing arson and so on and so forth”, he explained. Meanwhile, President Buhari, disclosed that he engaged in a telephone conversation with the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmoud Yakubu, ahead of the presidential and National Assembly elections on Saturday. According to him, the meeting which was at the instance of the Chairman of INEC, was  all part of efforts to ensure that the elections hold successfully. Buhari, made the disclosure of the meeting while explaining his five minutes lateness to the commissioning and handover of security equipment valued at over N12 billion to the military and Nigeria Police Force. He reminded those present that everything needed to be done for a successful election to be achieved. “I’m being grounded by INEC. You know next Saturday is a great day for us and I take instructions from INEC so that I make sure there’ll be no excuses for the successful election”, Buhari had told his guests.