…Alleges economy sabotage, breach of peace By Adewale Sanyaolu The management of Pinnacle Oil and Gas Limited has raised the alarm over alleged plans by the political opponents of its Founder/Chief Executive Officer and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Enugu State, Dr. Peter Mbah, to sabotage the economy by prolonging the lingering fuel scarcity. The firm in a petition signed by its Managing Director, Robert Dickerman and addressed to the Director-General of the Department of State Services(DSS) alleged that the plot by the political opponents of Mbah was aimed to cause breach of peace and sabotage the national economy by instigating protests at its terminal situated at the Lekki Free Zone, Ibeju Lekki, Lagos. Dickerman, further alleged that that the plotters were seeking to create the impression that Mbah diverted monies paid to the company for supply of petroleum products to his governorship project, thereby precipitating the fuel shortages across the country. The Pinnacle Oil and Gas MD alleged that persons suspected to be Mbah’s political opponents in his home state were desperately trying to recruit the company’s partners and customers, to stage massive and well-publicised protests at the facility over “a totally false and absolutely non-existent failure to fulfill the terms of product supply contract with marketers”. The company described the narrative as “totally malicious, untrue and unpatriotic, and shows how far Mbah’s political opponents in his home state are ready to go to stop him even if their sinister plot to destabilize the national economy, including fuel shortages experienced by Nigerians”. “This wicked machination to complicate issues around the economy and the attendant security challenges associated with fuel distribution in Nigeria is geared towards not only destroying the facility and reputation of Pinnacle Oil and Gas Limited and its Founder/Chief Executive Officer across the country and beyond, but also to cause a major breach of peace and security across the country in an election month. Pinnacle Oil and Gas Limited is a well governed corporate organisation with an effective Board, hence insulated from whatever political ambitions being pursued by its Founder/CEO. We are the undisputed market leader in the downstream subsector of the Nigerian oil and gas industry. Our record as a major factor in ameliorating the challenges of fuel distribution in Nigeria is public knowledge and well published on NNPCL’s website and verified social media handles”. It therefore called on the DSS to “immediately step into the matter to not only nip the planned chaos in the bud, but also to thoroughly investigate it and bring all the culprits to book in overall national interest”.