By Bimbola Oyesola As Nigerians go to the poll tomorrow to elect a new president and members of the National Assembly, the Trade Union Congress (TUC) has charged workers to be vigilant and to cast their votes for Labour Party (LP).  President of TUC, Festus Osifo, who made the call, yesterday, reminded workers that LP belongs to them and it was important they they back  candidates running on the platform of the party. He described the poll as crucial in determining the immediate future of the country, especially in socio-economic terms, and its general wellbeing, saying the working class must realize they have a greater stake in the election. “Workers have the duty not only to cast their votes for candidates of their choice who are pro-labour and they can trust, but also to defend the sanctity of the electoral process. Congress is directing all our members in all the 36  states and the 744  local government areas to be reminded that Labour Party belongs to us , hence our appeal to all our members  to vote for labour party and all their candidates,” Osifo said. He said workers must keep in mind that where the political elites, some of who hold multiple nationalities and rich enough to relocate abroad, the working people and the mass of the citizenry have no alternatives but to stay in the country.  The TUC president, therefore, tasked  the working class to  be committed to peaceful conduct of the elections, and to safeguard the general peace of the country even after the election. He called on the police and other security agencies to maintain neutrality in the elections and not to engage in illegal escort duties. He also charged  security agencies to be civil to citizens and be professional in their general conduct throughout the elections. The labour leader urged all Nigerians to ensure that special protection is given to electoral officials, especially the over 200,000 National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members engaged as ad-hoc staff for the poll. Osifo also charged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure smooth elections in which votes count. “The entire process must be free, fair, transparent and credible,” he said.   He said since INEC has publicly confirmed that its needs and demands, including funds have been met, it has no excuses whatsoever to fail.  The TUC leader also advised all politicians to keep to the tenets of democratic practices and play by the rules. Osifo said TUC welcomes the 33 international organisations and 2,113 observers that have been deployed for the elections and requested they stick to their role of observing the elections without any form of interference.  The labour leader urged them to refrain from making statements that could inflame passions or lead to any form of disruption in the country. While calling for peaceful elections and a smooth transition to a new administration, the TUC President expressed dismay about the inability of the federal and state governments and their political allies to find a solution to the currency crises they have foisted on the populace.