From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The All Progressives Congress (APC) has expressed confidence that the party’s presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, will harvest the desired votes from the North-West zone to ensure his emergence in the February 25 presidential poll. Zonal Chairman, North-West, Salihu Moh Lukman, gave the assurance in a statement he signed and made available to newsmen in Abuja on Sunday.  Lukman said the successes recorded during the campaign of the seven states that make up the geopolitical zone, signposts victory for the APC in the North-West for the party’s presidential candidate in the election of February 25. “From Kaduna on December 13, to Kano on January 4, Jigawa on January 21, Zamfara on January 28, Katsina February 6, Sokoto February 9, and finally on Saturday, February 11 in Kebbi, our people came out to demonstrate mass support for our party and all our candidates. “Part of what must be acknowledged is the fact that across all the seven states in the North-West, our leaders and candidates have been able to reconcile with all party leaders and members and accordingly resolve all the challenges arising from internal party contests leading to the emergence of candidates for the 2023 elections. “The ability of our party leaders to reconcile and forge a united front in the North-West zone is largely responsible for all the successful rallies in all the seven states. “We also wish to acknowledge the successful campaign rallies and activities of all our candidates across all the seven states, which is responsible for increasing the level of confidence of citizens in our party and our candidates and the large defection of political leaders from other opposition parties to the APC, including the Jigawa governorship candidate of Labour Party and serving Commissioners in PDP government of Sokoto State. “All these signposts victory for the APC in the North-West for our presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu in the presidential election of February 25, 2023 and all our candidates for National Assembly. “It also signposts victory in the governorship and State Assembly elections in all the seven states of North-West. We are very confident that with Allah’s blessing, all the seven states of North-West, including Sokoto State will be APC states as from May 29, 2023,” Lukman noted in the statement. The former Director-General of the APC Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) said, “As we move to February 25 election day, we are confident that our leaders in all the seven states of North-West will give all necessary guide to party members, candidates, and all party supporters. “We call on all members of APC Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) from the zone to join all our party leaders at state levels to ensure effective mobilisation of voters on election day. We must remind everyone that in the end, politics is local and victory for the election will be at the polling unit. “Without doubt, APC North-West Presidential Rally has affirmed that North-West is APC and APC is North-West. We must remind Nigerians that the political history of Nigeria has shown that every presidential candidate that wins the votes of North-West wins the Presidency. “With APC leaders united in North-West, supported by all party members and all candidates at all levels, in sha Allah, APC presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu will win the February presidential election in North-West and will be returned eventually as President-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria!” Lukman maintained in the statement.