From David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi A few hours to the presidential election, the South East Organising Secretary of All Progressives Congress (APC), Dozie Ikedife (Jnr.), has made projections that the party would win over 30 per cent votes in almost each of the five states of the South East. Ikedife, who was reacting to insinuations that the party would not make it in Igboland, also said the APC would have 25 per cent in over 30 states of the federation as well as win majority of the votes. He declared those who made negative projections of the party’s performance would be shocked to the marrows, insisting the APC would celebrate its victory on Sunday, February 26. The first son of the late Dozie Ikedife, former president general of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, said: “I’m projecting the APC will win 30 per cent of the votes in Anambra State. Labour Party might be lucky to have 45 per cent. We pray we don’t have voter apathy. “Anambra people have keyed into the message of Bola Tinubu, the man who fought for our democracy, the man who fought the military junta. He spent his sweat for our democracy. “He is winning in the South, winning in the North and winning in the South West. This is a man who did not refuse to conduct local government election in Lagos State as a governor. He deserves the mandate to be the president. We are going to celebrate our victory on Sunday, “ he said. On whether Tinubu, as president, would have the strength to pilot the affairs of Nigeria, he asked whether any poll had been conducted to prove that the APC presidential candidate was not healthy. “Tinubu has visited the 36 states back to back in his campaigns. He visited Imo State two to three times and Abonyi State two times. The job of a president is not weight lifting. It’s all about mental focus.  “I have already bought drinks and made arrangements for our celebration. We are going to celebrate because we will not lose. Our victory is going to be landslide. He is going to win in Sokoto, Zamfara, Kebbi, Oyo, indeed the entire South West and we are going to win on the first ballots,” Ikedife said.