…Ask him, AGF to obey Supreme Court order Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja The festering crisis in the All Progressives Congress (APC) took a new twist, yesterday, when the party’s national leadership, the National Working Committee (NWC) and the governors on the platform of the party rose from a marathon meeting in Abuja and charged the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) to obey Supreme Court order on naira swap. Chairman of the party, Abdullahi Adamu, who read the resolutions after the meeting, said their stand was without prejudice to the court case lying before the Supreme Court. In attendance during the meeting included 12 governors and two deputies, comprising Lagos, Gombe, Kaduna, Kogi, Jigawa, Yobe, Niger, Ekiti, Plateau, Kebbi who doubles as the Chairman APC Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), the full compliment of the NWC members, and the presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who made appearance during the meeting. Reading the resolutions, they claimed that since the programme and its implementation was causing tremendous difficulties for Nigerians, President Muhammadu Buhari and the CBN should respect the Supreme Court ruling. “We had discussion and at the end of the discussion, we have resolved as follows and this resolution is without prejudice or whatsoever the case that is lying at the supreme court at this point in time. This has to do with the issue of currency redesign. “We note very seriously that the programme and its implementation is causing tremendous difficulties to the people of Nigeria and to the national economy. We urge the Attorney General of the Federation and the Governor of the CBN to respect the Supreme Court order of Interim injunction which is still subsisting. That the meeting is urging his Excellency, Mr President to intervene in resolving issues that are causing this great difficulties to the economy,” Adamu said. On the presence of the party’s candidate during the meeting, he said “his visit is a normal one.” Chairman PGF, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, said they were all on the same page, adding that the governors were comfortable with the position taken at the meeting. “The governors and the party are one and the same. And I am very proud about the conduct of our campaign by our presidential candidate. Director General of the campaign and indeed, governors and the candidates across the country have been doing a tremendous job of mobilising the Nigerian populace and we are very, very impressed with the support of the majority of Nigeria,” he said. Earlier in his opening remarks, the party’s chairman, said: “You will recall that the recent development has necessitated the need for this invitation. We do not want to seat in judgement of anybody or bodies with regards to what is going on today in the country as it affects our great party. “I thought the best to do is to get all those who are holding forth in the critical positions in the party to get together and have some interaction so that we can have a better interpretation and appreciation of the situation that we are in. That is the essence of this invitation.”