•Alerts nationals on possible protests during elections From Aidoghie Paulinus,  Abuja The United States and the Federal Government have signed an agreement for the repatriation of $954,000 allegedly stolen by former Bayelsa State governor, Diepreye Alamieyeseigha. The agreement was signed, yesterday, in Abuja by US ambassador to Nigeria, Mary Leonard, and Solicitor General of the Federation (SGF) and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Justice, Beatrice Jedy-Agba, The SGF said the funds have been approved for the construction of a healthcare centre for residents of Bayelsa State. “This asset return arose from the forfeiture and recovery of approximately $1 million linked to the corrupt practices of Alamieyeseigha. The United States government, in collaboration with the Federal Republic of Nigeria (FRN) initiated and completed forfeiture proceedings against certain real property and investment funds located in Maryland and Massachusetts against the former governor which resulted in the net forfeiture to the Government of United States of America totalling $954,807.40. “Following the court order, the FRN and the USA have negotiated and finalised the terms of the asset return agreement. “It is worthy to note that in line with the terms of this agreement, Mr. President has already approved the expected sum to be utilised for the implementation of a health centre project for the benefit of the people of Bayelsa State and to be monitored by the civil society organisations and the Federal Government, through the federal ministry of justice.” Meanwhile, the United States has warned its nationals over the forthcoming elections in the country. Embassy of the United States, Abuja, in its latest travel advisory, particularly warned its nationals on possible protests leading to elections and restricted movements on election days. “Nigerian national elections are scheduled for February 25 and gubernatorial elections are scheduled for March 11, 2023. The Government of Nigeria will restrict the movement of all personal vehicles on election days across the country. “Information from the Government of Nigeria indicates that only law enforcement personnel and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) accredited election observers will be allowed to move freely along the roads. “Based on past election practice, we anticipate personal vehicles will be blocked from any and all attempted road movement from 00:00 until 18:00 February 25 and 00:00 until 18:00 March 11. Please be advised that movement restrictions may be extended at any time. Be alert to Government of Nigeria information about the restrictions,” the US Embassy said. In the advisory, the United States also said rallies and demonstrations are commonplace before and after elections. “US citizens should avoid any of these types of events, as they can turn violent with little or no notice,” the Embassy said. The United States, however, advised its nationals to have three days of food and water in their residence in case movement restrictions are extended beyond election day. The United States also advised its nationals to have a pre-packed bag that contains travel documents, medications, toiletries, cash, and clothes in case there is need to relocate from their residence. Other precautions include avoidance of large crowds, awareness of surroundings, keeping a low profile, carrying proper identification, review of personal security plans, keeping of cell phone charged in case of emergency and monitoring local media for updates.