By Steve Agbota  As part of efforts to aid evangelism and better understanding the Holy Bible, Jehovah Witnesses in Nigeria, yesterday, unveiled the New World Translation Bible in Urhobo and Pidgin English. The event coincided with the visit of representatives of the Governing Body of the organization to Nigeria. It was broadcast live to Kingdom Halls and Assembly Halls of Jehovah’s Witnesses around the country with over a total of over half a million people participating. A member of the Governing Body of Jehovah’s Witnesses, Mr. Jeffrey Winder, who officially unveiled the bibles said the New Testament of the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures in Urhobo and Pidgin English language from Matthew to Revelation would further aid evangelism in Nigeria. “This is very important, because people will really enjoy the content of the bible. Its very clear, sharp and correct. It is done in a language that God want us to understand. This is another wonderful thing that the Jehovah organisation has done for Nigeria,” he said. He urged members to be fully engaged in ministrations, and shun worldly affairs. He urged Nigerians not to be bothered by the prevailing situation saying the problems were  temporary, assuring everlasting blessings were around the corner.  Media Representative of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Nigeria, Mr. Jama Onwubuariri, said pidgin English was spoken by over 75 million persons in Nigeria, other West African countries, Europe and the US.  “These speakers deserve to understand God’s Word without the hindrance of language. The idea is to produce a Pidgin translation that could speak to the heart of Pidgin English speakers in different countries of West and Central Africa. There are about five million users of the Urhobo language. The language has some dialects and has changed over time. This translation in Urhobo is done in accordance with the dynamism of the language and can easily be understood by various dialectal groups within the Urhobo community,” he said. One of the most widely distributed magazines in the world – The Watchtower – is also available in Urhobo and Pidgin English.