By Christy Anyanwu  Black and beautiful Zelma Tatua is one girl that knows her onions.  After a keen contest, the 14-year-old prodigy from Bayelsa State emerged victorious in the Global Face of Africa Fashion For Peace pageantry, which held recently. In this interview, Tatua shed more lights on how and why she entered for the beauty contest, her pet projects and lots more. Please enjoy it. As a beauty queen/ambassador, could you tell us more about who Zelma Tatua is? Zelma Tatua is 14-year-old and loves to study. She is a straight-A student and almost an all-rounder. By all-rounder, I mean she can sing, dance and cook. She’s also good with languages, good at public speaking and writing of expositions.  Zelma Tatua is equally good at foreign and local history, and can argue with facts, which means she would make a good lawyer. She likes politics and animals, and wants to be a doctor. In fact, she likes to excel in everything she does.  Zelma attends Lycée Français Marcel Pagnol d’Abuja. She was first at a German school in Lagos but later moved to Italian school also in Lagos, and had to change to French school when she relocated to Abuja. Zelma is learning to speak Korean, Spanish and Kalabari languages, and she is the life of the party at home.  Could you shed more lights on the beauty contest you won? The African Fashion for Peace is an organisation that is involved in different fashion shows, modelling and charity events. The Nigerian chapter is managed by Miss Hopez, a model and fashion designer. On the modalities for the pageantry, first of all, there were invitations and adverts for casting. Those who were picked were groomed for a few weeks at Transcorp Hilton, Abuja and were sent to the runway of African Fashion for Peace, after which they were advised to join the online contest for the Face of African Fashion for Peace. The person with the highest number of likes and shares becomes the global face for African Fashion for Peace. I entered the contest, got the highest number of votes and was declared winner.  Why did you decide to partake in the beauty contest in the first instance? My mum prompted me to participate in the competition. Since when I was about nine years old, different people would walk up to us at malls or at different functions asking if I was a model or would like to be a model. But we always laughed it off and thanked them for their concern. But last year, we seemed to get those kinds of comments a lot. So, my mum decided that, perhaps I should give it a shot, and that’s how we got here. My parents are very supportive of me. I feel very happy, because I didn’t think it was a big deal until people started calling to congratulate me.  Could you share with us the projects you wish to embark on? I intend to reach out to vulnerable kids through my pet project. The idea is not only to give them food to eat but also to donate clothes and have positive talks with them. I am more particular about abused and traumatized kids, so I look forward to working with FIDA and NAPTIP because they handle most of these cases. Would you love to partake in any other pageant soon? At the moment, I am not looking for any pageant, because I want to focus more on my pet projects. Even though, I am not in search for one, if I hear of any pageant coming up, I will definitely love to participate to see how far I can go.  What is your take on fashion? I want to use fashion to pass a message of peace, hope and love.