Serena Williams has won this year’s NAACP’s Jackie Robinson Sports Award, as the tennis great followed in the steps of Michael Jordan and LeBron James, admitting she’s ‘incredibly humbled’ to be given the honor. The 41-year-old, who won 23 Grand Slam titles over the course of a 27-year career between 1995 and 2022, received the prize in Pasadena, California, on Saturday. The award is given to athletes ‘who’ve promoted social justice through creative endeavors.’     It was retired after 1999 and revived in 2017 for LeBron James. Williams is the 10th athlete to win the award, which was first given to three-time Olympic champion and track and field star Wilma Rudolph in 1988.  ‘I’m incredibly humbled to be amongst some of the greatest names in today’s culture, celebrating those who promote equity through creative endeavors,’ Williams said at the ceremony.  ‘Together, we are a team of trailblazers, and we represent what is possible, when you truly believe in yourself, and your potential, and follow your life and passion.’  Williams retired from professional tennis last year. Considered among the greatest tennis players of all time, she was once ranked world No. 1 in singles by the WTA for 319 weeks, including a joint-record 186 consecutive weeks, and finished as the year-end No. 1 five times.  Williams has also won 73 professional tournaments, the most by a player in the Open Era, and the second-most of all time.  Aside from also winning four Olympic gold medals, as well as 13 doubles Grand Slam titles, the Florida native is the only player, male or female, to accomplish a Career Golden Slam in both singles and doubles.    Williams now joins James and Stephen Curry as the only three athletes to receive the award in the 21st century.  Other recipients from the 20th century include: Michael Jordan in 1999; NFL great Jim Brown in 1997; College football Hall of Famer Eddie Robinson in 1996; Lakers legend Magic Johnson; and MLB catcher Roy Campanella and rowing star Anita DeFrantz in 1990.