From Okwe Obi, Abuja FCT Labour Party senatorial candidate Ireti Kingibe has promised to feed at least 1,000 residents of Abuja every Friday if elected. Kingibe, at a press briefing on Wednesday in Abuja, said the feat would be achieved through her pet project tagged ‘I go chop with Ireti’ or ‘Chop Friday.’ “Now, feeding. There is another programme that I have that is called ‘I go chop with Ireti.’ it is a programme where I am trying to have something called ‘Chop Friday.’ “Chop Friday is something where I hope that all across the FCT we will feed a thousand people every Friday. What that means is that my friend Ene will go and take her N5 to give it to one person. I will take my N5 and give it to another person. “I want to put it in a manner in every ward. We will have designated places where a logo can show that on Fridays all the food this person is cooking has been bought. So that some of us who are more privileged can look after the less privileged. “The truth of the matter is I had no run for senator of FCT, the only job I wanted in the whole government is the national orientation agency. Because I feel that Nigerians, we are not bad people. We just got lost somewhere along the road. “I think it is very easy when we just start getting into the minds of the people. I know that there are times if you doing something bad and somebody comes to talk to you about it properly, it will change your mindset. I think that is what the national orientation agency is to do. “It is to sell patriotism to Nigerians the way we sell religion. There is no proof of it. But you believe it. And when we Nigerians buy that belief then we become Nigerians who can create a Nigeria we can actually be patriotic about,” she said. The engineer also promised to employ ‘Ireti Marshalls’, who will in turn, recruit volunteers across the wards in the FCT, to feed her with information on violence against women. According to her, violence against women would be drastically dealt with. She said: “One of the things I feel passionately and is part of my issues is violence against women. To be able to do a lot of things, I will create what I call ‘Ireti Marshalls’. “Ireti Marshalls will be people who I am going to have them in the wards. So I have like 20 Ireti captains in the wards who mobilize young people to volunteer to be marshals for different things “I will have Marshals for violence against women. So, in your community, if there is a problem like this we are going to hear it from the marshals. “I am going to get funding so that we can do a lot of things to ensure that violence against women is mitigated and eventually eradicated.”