From Abel Leonard, Lafia In a bid to fight financial crisis arising from the new Naira notes swap, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) says it is ready to clamp down on Nigerians who are trying to sabotage the efforts put in place by the CBN. The Chairman of the EFCC, Abdulrasheed Bawa, made the pronouncement on Saturday at Police Training College, Endehu Hill, Nasarawa State shortly after the passing out parade of Detective Assistant Cadet Course 3 of 2022. Bawa said the programme started when Nigeria was undergoing the new Naira note swap, noting that the success story was that Nigeria had come to realise that it was the policy of the government and it had to be implemented even though it came with a lot of challenges He added that the government is trying hard to solve the problem as the results  are becoming a reality because everyone has seen it, and in a long run everyone is going to benefit from it.” “EFCC now has their own offices in all the state of the federation with the help of other officials including CBN, those with bad intentions will be  fished  out.” Earlier, during his speech at the Parade, he had said the event marked the end of the basic law enforcement training for Detective Assistant Cadet Course 3/2022, adding that the event was epoch making as the passing out cadets were availed complete combat programme. He added that they engaged in operations training facilitated through the collaboration of personnel from the Police Mobile Force and EFCC. He stressed that they commenced the Basic Law Enforcement training on the 4th of September, 2022. Three hundred and five (305) cadets, drawn from every state of Nigeria “participated in the programme with 260, males and 45 females making a total of 305. “During that time, they underwent both the EFCC and the mobile police components of training, thereby enhancing their mental and physical capabilities. They received academic training from EFCC instructors, in various aspects of operational studies, legal studies, financial studies, forensics, ICT and general studies. “They were also introduced to the policies and manuals of the Commission which are meant to guide their conducts throughout their careers in the operation.” Bawa appreciate President Muhammadu Buhari for his support, noting that it would not have been possible without his commitment in fighting the scourge of criminality, adding that it was in line with that commitment, and also Section 11 of the EFCC Establishment Act. One of the passing out cadets who was the overall best during the training, Maigoro Awwal Sulyman, expressed joy that after six months of effective training, he was able to come out as the overall best. “I want to say I am happy with everything; the training was very intense; but we were able to survive it.”