From Gyang Bere, Jos, Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure, From John Adams, Minna, Idu Jude, Nasarawa, Okey Sampson, Umuahia, Olanrewaju Lawal, Birnin Kebbi, Sylvanus Viashima, Jalingo, Layi Olanrewaju , Ilorin, Felix Ikem, Nsukka, George Onyejiuwa, Owerri,  Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha, Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan, Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha, Tony Osauzo and Ighomuaye Lucky Please enable JavaScript The presidential and National Assembly election conducted, yesterday, was generally peaceful in most parts of the country but the voting process was largely marred by late arrival electoral materials as well as hitches arising from malfunctioning of BVAS machines.   In plateaus State, there was delay in accreditation in most polling units in Jos South and Jos North Local Government Areas because of BVAS malfunctioning. While many of the voters were wailing to vote without accreditation, the INEC officials and party agents at the Jos Township Stadium refused to allow them to vote until the issues of BVAS were ratified. The same situation was also experienced at polling unit 015 in Dandyes, in Vwang District where the BVAS was slow and in some cases rejecting the fingerprint of the people. Some of the voters who spoke to Sunday Sun said they were stranded as the BVAS were not working, while the turned out was very massive in virtually all the polling units. In Barkin-Ladi Local Government Area, there was late commencement of voting process.  As of 11:28 am, the INEC officials were yet to arrive at the polling units. Deputy Chairman Senate Committee on Defence and Senator Representing Plateau North, Istifanus Gyang decried the late arrival of INEC officials and malfunctioning of BVAS in most polling units in the state. “I was coming home to exercise my civic responsibility and I noticed one of the polling units in my locality about 11:38am that INEC officials had not arrived with the materials and the people were agitated to express concern over the situation. “Today is a very critical day for our nation. INEC has given us assurance of free, fair and credible election. And that can only become a reality when Nigerians can exercise their franchise,” he said. However, the state governor and Director-General of Tinubu/Shittima Presidential Campaign Council, Simon Lalong Lalong, applauded the peaceful conduct of the election as well as massive turn out of voters. Lalong, who casted his vote at his polling unit in Ajikamai, Shendam Local Government Area along with his family, said he was highly impressed with the turnout of voters in various polling units he sighted on his way to vote as well as from reports he had been receiving from across the state. He commended the people of Plateau State for their enthusiasm and peaceful conduct which he said affirms their maturity in politics. In the same way, the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Caleb Mutfwang, who voted around 11 am in his polling units in Ampang West, Mangu Local Government Area of the state, said, “generally speaking, the process has being going on seemingly and smoothly based on what I have seen but we have some few hitches here and there, particularly in my polling units and in some polling units within my ward is late start in the election process.” “The turn out in most of the polling units we have seen and monitored is amazing, it shows that people are determined to chose who will lead them” In Ondo, the voting process was marred by low turnout of voters in many polling centres.  Some minor technical hitches were also experienced in some centres. It was gathered that the cashless policy of the Federal Government which prevented vote buying was responsible for the low turnout of voters In many of the polling centres in Akure, Ondo and Ilaramokin, most of the voters did not get to the polling centres until afternoon. A minor technical hitch was experienced by some voters, including Governor Rotimi Akeredolu who was delayed for about 10 minutes before he was recognized by the Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS). Akeredolu who voted at ward 05, unit 06, in his ljebu Owo country home, however, hailed the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for a successful job. Speaking with journalists shortly after exercising his franchise, the Governor said he was not too impressed with the turnout of voters. His words:”Probably, this initial hiccup applied to me only because several people had passed through this and they didn’t have much problem. “Whichever one, the important thing is that at the end of the day, the BVAS machine captured me. That’s all. In Niger State, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, former Governor Babangida Aliyu and the Senator representing Niger East Senatoral District, Alhaji Mohammed Sani Musa, commended the electoral umpire for the peaceful conduct of the election, describing the exercise as violent free and well organized. In their separate interview with newsmen after observing their civic rights, they commended the INEC for the use of the Biomodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) which, according to them, made the system easier. The state governor, while speaking with newsmen shortly casting his vote at his polling unit in Kontagora, Kontagora Local Government Area of the state, allayed the fears of Nigerians over the use of the BVAS machines.  “The BVAS is nothing to worry about. I am highly impressed with the technology. I thought it would be a complicated exercise, but it appears to be a very simple exercise and straightforward”, he said. In Nasarawa state, enthusiastic voters turned out of in their numbers to cast their votes for their preferred candidates.   However, the voting process was marred by the late arrival of INEC officials to the polling units. Some were unable to locate their polling units, while others found their names conspicuously missing in the registration list. This led to thousands of eligible voters moving from one polling unit to the other to find their polling units where they could cast their ballots. They expressed dismay over the incident the confusion.   According to Ibrahim magaji, an agent of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), narrated the efforts he made along with his family to be accredited at polling unit 008 but all to no avail.   Mr. Philip Salami, a corps member, in charge of the polling unit, said the registration list he had with him contained 531 voters as against the huge crowd waiting to vote.  An agent of the Labour Party, Mr. Joseph Ogbu, expressed shock over the situation, saying “it is disappointing that INEC has failed to live up to the expectations. Similarly, the Governor of Abia State, Okezie Ikpeazu, decried late arrival of materials in polling units. He expressed his displeasure after casting his vote at Umuebere ward 7 unit 032, Umuobiakwa, in Obingwa local government area of Abia state, warning that the people should not be disenfranchised because of late arrival of election materials. Also, the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grant Alliance (APGA), Prof Gregory Ibe, noted the late arrival of voting materials in his Abia North. He lamented the possibility of disenfranchisement of voters and enjoined INEC to extend the period of voting to make up for the lost time. The situation is slightly different in Kebbi State where Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Chika Malami (SAN), former Minister of Special Duties, Kabiru Tanu Turakin (SAN), lauded the INEC for the free conduct of the polls.   Bagudu, who casted his votes at Mai allu, noted an improvement in the electoral process, urged eligible voters to exercise their civil rights. He also commended the security agencies for their efforts to ensure security across the state during the election. In his reactions, the PDP Governorship candidate, General (rtd) Aminu Bande, said he would accept the outcome of the elections if free and fair, stressing that he was not desperate to be governor of the State. In Osun State, former governor Gboyega Isiaka Oyetola, who casted his vote at Ward 1, Unit 10, in Iragbiji country home in Boripe Local Government Area of the state, expressed worry over violent attacks in some parts of the state. He raised serious concerns over reports of severe attacks on members and supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in some parts of the State particularly in Ijesaland and Ile-Ife. “Going by the situation of where I voted, the process was peaceful, INEC officials were found at the polling unit. But I have heard reports of some destruction in some parts of the State particularly in Ilesa and Atakunmosa West and Atakunmosa East. Very unfortunate, despite the fact that we have been on this for a while,” he said. In Taraba State, the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Emmanuel Bwacha, on his own part, expressed confidence that his party would win the president and all the National Assembly positions in the state. Bwacha stated this in his hometown of Mararaba, Donga local government area after casting his vote, adding that the acceptance of the party during campaign was a proof that the people were ready for a positive change. Though election went peacefully in Kwara State, anxious voters experienced delayed accreditation due to malfunctioned Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BIVAS).  The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, described the conduct of the presidential election in his country home of Oro, Irepodun Local Area of Kwara state as peaceful, urging Nigerians to resist the temptation of broadcasting or posting unverified results. For instance at Ile- Bale polling unit (002 ) in Ajase- IPO ward 1, in Irepodun Local Government, many prospective voters waited for more than 3 hours after the arrival of electoral officials due to malfunctioned BIVAS. A 90-year-old trader, Mallam Saliu Yakubu, was among the frustrated voters who waited patiently for more than 3 hours for electoral officials to fix the machine. In Enugu State, the election process was peaceful, free, and fair as residents expressed satisfaction with the distribution of INEC materials in the area. Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, the candidate of the People Democratic Party (PDP) in Enugu North Senatorial District cast, who casted his vote at 10.25 am at Amube Ohom Orba polling unit of Udenu Local Government Area, said Enugu was is in the hand of God. “I thank God of Abraham, God of Isaac, God of Jacob, and awesome God of David who made today possible,” he said The Chairman of the People Democratic Party (PDP) in Nsukka, Local Government Area, Mr. Fabian Onah, who spoke with newsmen, said the distribution of election materials was okay and commended INEC for a job well done. “With this good starting, I have no doubt this election will be successful, free, and fair,” he said. In Oweri, the Imo State capital, the National Secretary of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Samuel Anyanwu, who voted at his Amaimo ward in Ikeduru council, described the process as peaceful, noting that the BVAS worked efficiently. This is even as a 95-year-old woman, Benedicta Osuji, said that she came out to cast her for Obi despite the insecurity in the state for a better future for her grand children.  She described the presidential election as “decisive”, adding that she felt fulfilled after casting her vote. The election was generally peaceful in Anambra State but late arrival of INEC officials delayed voting process in many polling units especially in Onitsha and its environs. Even though there was absence of security personnel in most polling units; the voters conducted themselves in an orderly manner. Governor of Anambra State, Professor Chukwuma Charles Soludo, described the election as orderly and peaceful.  He stated this after he voted at his polling unit 002, Ofeiyi, Umueze, Isuofia, Aguata Council Area. He attributed the peaceful conduct of the election to the atmosphere of peace in Anambra State, noting that the so-called sit-at-home directive issued by some non-state actors was disregarded by the people as they trooped out in large numbers to perform their civic duties. He pointed out that aside from some instances or reported cases of late arrival of materials, INEC had improved on the usage of BVAS. He called on the citizens to shun all manner of violence or electoral malpractice as they continued to troop out to cast their votes. Prof. Umeadi, APGA presidential candidate, said he was sure of victory. “I am happy that BVAS worked for me, I am happy that I am the face of APGA in Nigeria and with all humility very happy that I have casted my votes for myself and the two National Assembly contestants whose elections are also holding today,” he said.    The election was equally as peaceful with large turnout of voters in most parts of Oyo State, including Oyo town, Ogbomoso, Oke-Ogun, and Ibarapa. No incident of electoral violence was recorded in any part of the state. Operatives of combined security agencies were seen at strategic places in the state capital, and outside Ibadan. In many of the polling units visited in Ibadan, election officials arrived early but electoral materials arrived late to some polling units in the state. There were also instances of breaking down of BVAS machine in some areas within Ibadan metropolis such as Akobo, Bashorun, Mokola, Dugbe, Iyaganku, Agodi-Gate, Oke-Adu, Elekuro, Oranyan and so on. Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, who is seeking re-election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), after casting his votes, said democracy had come to stay in Nigeria. The governor and his wife voted at Unit 001, Abayomi, Iwo Road, Ward Eleven, Ibadan North East Local Government. “The accreditation process was seamless. People conducted themselves very well. I think democracy has come to stay in Nigeria…People should excise their civic responsibility,” he said. Also, the Oyo State Coordinator for Tinubu-Shettima Campaign Council and governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Teslim Folarin, commended security agencies for maintaining peace in the state during the conduct of the election. In Edo State, election in Esan Central/Esan West/Igueben Federal Constituency of the state was put on hold as a result of the omission of Labour Party’s logo from the ballot paper. The situation caused some tension as some angry voters openly denounced the move as an attempt to manipulate the election. However, prospective voters arrived early at their voting units to cast their ballots. The governor, while describing the process as peaceful, said the BVAS had made the process seamless.   The immediate past national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and candidate for Edo North Senatorial District, Adams Oshiomhole, after voting, expressed confidence that he would win the Edo North Senatorial election. Lamenting the late arrival of electoral materials in the Etsako Federal Constituency, he said he had reported the matter to the Electoral Officer (EO) in charge of the locality, alleging that the development was targeted at the Etsako federal constituency. “INEC is clearly not ready in many polling units in Etsako area because they know that in Edo North, there is no way they will do free and fair election, I will have overwhelming votes”, he said. As in other parts of the country, the election was also peaceful in almost all the 44 Local Government Areas in Kano State, as eligible voters turned out in their numbers to cast their votes in their various polling units. In most of the polling units visited by Sunday Sun, the exercise was seamless. Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, confirmed this development in an interview. He, however, pointed out that the accreditation was a bit slow when he was accredited. The voting process was also marred by late arrival of electoral materials in some voting units. Earlier, the Ad-hoc staff of the INEC at Dorayi Karama in Gwale Local Government Area of the state had picketed the centre for failure to pay them their N4000 allowance. But the matter was eventually resolved and voting process commenced in the area. There was huge presence of security in Kwankwaso area of Madobi Local Government where the Presidential candidate of the NNPP, Engineer Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso casted his vote. Meanwhile, tension was palpable in Warri South as voters protested disenfranchisement in most polling units. Temper went higher over the late arrival of the sensitive materials, as hundreds of voters thronged the polling units to show their protest. The protesters called for an official statement of the cancellation of the polls by the Electoral Officer, Kingsley Ogboe. Several efforts by journalist to get comments from the EO, Ogboe, proved abortive. Warri South council chairman, Michael Tidi blamed the development on alleged moves by opposition party to collide with INEC to disenfranchise his people. In a related development, four suspected thugs were arrested by the police for in connection with an attack on Idi Ogungun and Eleesun, an outskirt of Iragbiji, the hometown of the former Governor Adegboyega Oyetola in Boripe Local Government Area. The spokesperson of the Osun police command, Yemisi Opalola, confirmed the development.