• Commends Udom for consistency  National President of Oghara Elite Group, a socio-political organisation in Ethiope West Local Government Area of Delta State, Robinson Usabor, has urged the G-5 governors to have a rethink and support the presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar.  He said insisting on the resignation of PDP National Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu, as a way forward was impolitic on the part of the governors, given that the party was going into a national election as a major opposition party. “Let me say Atiku has no special interest in Ayu; rather it is all about the constitution of the party. For Ayu to resign, there must be a kind of amendment to be put in place by the party and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that would suit the situation at the moment.   “Ayu can only resign immediately after the election believing God that Atiku would be announced as the winner. From that point, Ayu can step down. And I thank God for Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, for his courage over this matter because he has been very consistent. The party is bigger and greater than anyone,” he said. Usabor said the South South governors should come together instead of the ensuing disagreement among themselves to support Atiku’s candidature for the February 25 poll, saying the PDP candidate has promised  a huge development/investment package of over $10 billion for the South South if he wins. He said Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, has not betrayed anybody or group by accepting to be the running mate to Atiku since politics is a contest of different interests. He said calls for Okowa to step down was not only unfair, but also a misplaced priority. “We may be surprise by God’s grace, that in 2027, Atiku may relinquish power to the South, other things being equal. Atiku will surprise Nigerians by his performance, removing every doubt and all manner of names they have tagged him over the years. The G-5 governors should have a rethink and forge ahead as one family for they are directly or indirectly feeding from the party. Nobody is perfect; Nigerians should rather give Atiku a chance by giving him their support,” Usabor said.