From Okey Sampson, Umuahia A group, Abia Reformation Movement (ARM), has insisted that baton of political leadership in Abia State must shift to Abia North senatorial zone this time around. ARM, which made this known during a press briefing in Umuahia, described itself as is a group of patriotic Abia youths who can not allow ancient landmarks and heritage of the State to be destroyed by selfish persons and interests, adding that the era of divide and rule was over in the State. Founder of ARM, Ibeabuchi Kalu accused Ukwa La Ngwa groups of enjoying State sponsorship, which according to him, has repartitioned Abia’s historic and political landmarks. The group also warned Ukwa La Ngwa groups to respect the Abia charter of equity which implies that the next Governor of Abia should come from Abia North as agreed by Abia founding fathers. The youths noted that power having moved from Abia North to Abia Central and then to Abia South, should return to Abia North. “With the expected completion of the tenure of Okezie Victor Ikpeazu, by May 29, 2023, the baton of leadership of the State is expected to and should return to Abia North to begin a new cycle of seamless power shifts across the state. “This seamless power shifts across the senatorial zones is what was contemplated by the Abia Charter of Equity principles for governing the state by our founding fathers.” The group alleged that conspiracy games are been played by incumbent government of the PDP and some political parties, like LP, YPP, in collaboration with some groups like Ukwa la Ngwa , to stop power from rotating back to Abia North, describing the alleged conspiracy as selfish, clannish and retrogressive. “This, if allowed will enthrone anarchy, chaos, tribal hatred, divisiveness and underdevelop the state. This must be resisted by all patriotic Abians”, ARM cautioned. The group appealed to Abians of good conscience to resist what it called PDP clannish rule by massively voting against the PDP and other political parties that fielded governorship candidates who are not of Abia North extraction. It expressed confidence that guber candidates of Abia North extraction would soon pick a consensus candidate among them, to enable Abia North man occupy Abia government house.