From Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja Wife of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar; Titi Abubakar, has appealed to women in the North Central and other parts of country, to vote for her husband, in the February 25 presidential poll. Titi Abubakar, who made the appeal, on Tuesday, in Abuja, while speaking at the PDP North Central Women Town Hall meeting, said an Atiku presidency will get the country working again. She noted that the PDP candidate has been tested and trusted during his last assignment as vice president in the President Olusegun Obasanjo administration, stating that Atiku as president will unify, secure and restructure the country. According to her, “The die is cast. Atiku is a sellable product. We are all here for one purpose. Saturday is here, and I depends solely on you. Women please don’t disappoint me.. Atiku wants a better life for us all. Atiku wants to bring back all the good things we enjoyed from 1999 -2007. “Atiku wants a good education for us all. Not only for us; but for our children and generations yet unborn. If our children are educated, nobody will come and deceive them. Atiku wants to restructure Nigeria. Atiku said the power at the centre is too much. He wants to diversify it, so that everyone can enjoy the dividend of democracy. “Atiku wants a better life for us all. Please, I appeal to you women; Atiku has been tested and trusted. Atiku has done it before. And Atiku will do it again.It is only the person that knows the road that will show you the road. He has done it before with Obasanjo. He was at the head of the economic team.” Mrs Abubakar, while imploring the women not to allow themselves to be deceived, stated that the PDP candidate has promised to give women and youths adequate attention in his cabinet, if elected president. Furthermore, she said “there are many moribund industrial that are lying fallow. All of this will be put to use. And it is only PDP government that will do it. Women’s I am appealing to you. Vote wisely. Vote Atiku Abubakar. Among all the contestants, it is only Atiku is doing issue based campaign. He is the person that knows the road. He does not just talk. He walks the talk.” The leaders of the various who groups, present at the event, pledged their support for the PDP presidential candidate and urged their members to take the message down to their various polling localities.