From Fred Ezeh, Abuja National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), has secured a partnership with the Canadian Government to strengthen the fight against human trafficking. NAPTIP Director General, Prof. Fatima Waziri-Azi, told journalists at a press conference in Abuja, on Tuesday, that the partnership became necessary due to the need to achieve more success in terms of arrests and convictions. She disclosed that human trafficking is the world’s second most profitable criminal enterprise which happens in plain sight, and far more prevalent, complex and close to home than most people realize and ready to pay attention. She confirmed that Canadian government has, for so long, supported the efforts of Nigeria, and had recently supported several strategic interventions targeted at controlling the scourge of human trafficking in Nigeria and has also remained one of NAPTIP’s dependable partner and ally. She explained that the partnership was specifically designed to progressively tackle human trafficking, and activities under the partnership is expected to be more impactful in different ways, particularly in the areas of capacity building, ICT support, logistics support, and several other ways. Meanwhile, the NAPTIP boss disclosed that in 2022, the Agency received 1,440 reported cases of trafficking in persons; 412 external trafficking cases (28.6%) and 1,028 internal trafficking cases (71.4%). She added that 2,743 victims were rescued in collaboration with other law enforcement agencies. While male children were 233 (8.5%), female children were 688 (25.1%). Male adults were 363 (13.2%); and female adults were 1,459 (53.2%) She also added that victims of inward trafficking (victims trafficked into Nigeria) were 45. Returned victims from abroad were 251 and intercepted victims (those who were on their way out of Nigeria) were1,484.“Most of these victims are trafficked by road through our borders all across the country. We also secured 80 convictions in 2022; 45 males and 35 females. “We already have 17 convictions for 2023 and, cumulatively, we have secured 592 convictions since our first conviction in 2004. We also have 262 cases in various courts across the country. “However, to keep up with the evolving trend of human trafficking, the Trafficking in Persons Prohibition Enforcement and Administration Act of 2015 is undergoing amendment at the National Assembly to incorporate current trends in human trafficking (orphanage trafficking, use of children in brothels) and provide for stiffer penalties. The Bill has been passed by the House of Representatives and has been transmitted to the Senate for concurrence,” she said. Canadian High Commissioner to Nigeria, James Christoff, in his remarks, admitted that human trafficking is a global challenge and there was need for collaborations to reduce the chances of people being trafficked. He restated the commitment of Canadian High Commission in Nigeria to support NAPTIP and other partners in the quest to dismantle the activities of trans-national human traffickers.