Experts across various sectors of economies in Africa will be storming Nigeria to address issues and challenges impeding growth in financial inclusion and speak on policies that will ensure consumer protection against cyber crime in the continent at this year’s RegtechAfrica conference. The conference, scheduled to hold from May 24 to 26, at Oriental Hotel, Lagos, would also focus on ways to reduce cybercrime as technology continues to disrupt economies.  It would also be a forum for regulators, regulated and key industry stakeholders to engage, collaborate and share knowledge around new technologies and practices that support better regulations. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of RegtechAfrica Conference, Cyril Okoroigwe, said the conference is coming at a time when digital revolution in financial sector has seen increasing changes with a new move towards technology driven delivery channels.  “This holds great promise as a means to enable financial inclusion and thus help improve citizens lives.” he said. Speakers at the event include Phillip Chitalu, chief executive officer, Securities and Exchange Commission, Zambia; Kashifu Inuwa Abdullahi, director general, National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA); Ayisat Agbaje, senior special assistant to the governor on Development Partnership and Economic Planning, Lagos State and Yilebes Addis, CEO of EthSwitch S.C, Ethiopia. Okoroigwe assured the conference would reveal how governments in emerging markets are raising the bar in implementation of policies and strategies with the aim of setting innovative standard for risk management aimed at providing clarify and engendering prosperity.  Hesaid cybercrime had become a key concern in developing and emerging key countries’ financial markets and was threatening to hinder consumer trust and other global advances in building more inclusive financial sectors. He said harnessing the power of big data, artificial intelligence and even block chain, regulatory technology is poised to reduce financial risk, increase regulatory compliance and stamp out laundering and fraud, all of which contribute to an estimated $2 trillion yearly loss for the global economy.