…empowers 445 graduates, 200 physically challenged, others Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Laide Raheem, Abeokuta The Ogun West senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Senator Solomon Olamilekan Adeola, has declared that he would work assiduously in the National Assembly, to facilitate developmental projects for Ogun West, if elected senator on Saturday. Adeola, who is currently representing Lagos West in the NASS, equally said that he would use his legislative experience and position as a ranking senator to engender socioeconomic development of the people of the Ogun West senatorial district. The senator spoke at the empowerment programme he facilitated for 4,445 persons, including 445 graduates, 200 physically challenged persons and 587 beneficiaries trained in agric value chain, held at Ilaro, Yewa South LGA, Ogun State. Adeola noted that two MDAs,  Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria and the National Productivity Centre, helped in the ICT training of the 445 graduates who would be empowered with computer laptops and cash grants of N100,000 each. Others beneficiaries of the programme, including the physically challenged, according to Adeola, who were provided with tricycles, make-up kits, gas cylinders, hairdressing saloon equipment, cookers and other confectionery equipment, grinding machines, deep freezers and sewing machines, would also get a cash grant of N80,000 each to start their businesses. The senator, who disclosed that over 15,000 persons had been empowered with trade tools and cash grants since he started his empowerment programme in Ogun West, said every strata of the society had been captured in the programme aimed at improving the lives of the people in the senatorial district.   He explained that the empowerment programmes were facilitated by him to bring succour and renewed hope to the people in the senatorial district, as a result of the incapacitating economic challenges facing the people across the nation. Senator Adeola said: “My focus in these facilitations is to bring succor and renewed hope for many Nigerians that would have been left with nowhere to turn to. By facilitating training and empowerment in equipment and cash grants, beneficiaries can have a start at making a living and contributing to the socio-economic development of our nation.  “In conjunction with two MDAs namely Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria and National Productivity Centre, 4000 trained  beneficiaries are being empowered with Computer Laptops, Tricycles, Makeup Kits, Hairdressing Saloon Equipment, Gas Cylinders, Cookers and other Confectionery Equipment, Grinding Machines, Deep Freezers, Sewing Machines, cash grants of N100,000 each for 200 trained physically challenged persons and N80,000 each for 587 Agric- Value Chain trainees.  “There is no doubt that the training and empowerment will make a difference in the lives of the beneficiaries in earning a living, building a business and contributing to the economic development of the society. The lucky beneficiaries of today’s programme were drawn from the 5 Local Government Areas of Ogun West Senatorial District namely, Ado Odo Ota, Yewa South, Yewa North, Ipokia and Imeko Afon”.  He, however, donated 25 electric transformers to 25 communities across Ogun West, saying the donation was part of the 60 requests he received for transformers during his campaign, promising to donate others after the February 25 election. “I want to encourage and appeal to all beneficiaries to apply the knowledge gained using their supplied equipment and the grants to increase their various trades. This is not the time to sell equipment for pittance that will vanish in no time.    “Let me conclude by saying that this programme is one of the many that I will be facilitating in due course in this senatorial district. I am here to renew the hope of many. Better days are ahead with effective representation of the people”, Adeola submitted.