By Brown Chimezie The Convener/Facilitator of Grow Orlu Project, an association of Orlu professionals, technocrats and leaders of thought both at home and in Diaspora, Prince Nixon Okwara has given reasons why the body has thrown its weight behind the aspiration of Senator Osiata Izunaso to represent Imo West in the upper Legislative Chamber in the next political dispensation. In this interview, he spoke on various issues. Why the clamour for Osita Izunaso by Grow Orlu Project? The clamour for Osita Izunaso to represent Imo West in the next Senate is as a result of his antecedents. You know that you cannot build a profile with what you want to do in the future. You build a profile with what you have done in the past. Politicians would always come to tell you that they will build a bridge across the Atlantic Ocean if elected, they would send human beings to Planet Sun if elected, they will do this, they will do that. But one of the greatest British statesmen, Winston Churchill said that politicians don’t believe themselves, so it surprises them when others believe them. Based on that, we did not want those who will tell us what they will do or not do in the future, but what they have done in the past. So, the Grow Orlu Project is clamouring or if you like earnestly seeking Osita Izunao because of what he has done in the past, his track records, his enviable records of achievements. Can you enumerate some of the achievements? Well, Osita Izunaso’s entrance into politics was a very big watershed because it was marked with remarkable success because of his selfless service and because of that, he became the first politician in Imo State as a whole to be elevated from the Federal House of Representatives to the Senate. He brought development to his people by attracting numerous infrastructure, empowering women and youths, most especially the down trodden through his Kpakpando Foundation. His foundation has brought succour to a lot of people. For the past 17 years, his foundation has been taking care of the physically challenged and other poor people in the society. There is this view that Orlu is highly under represented, do you agree with that? I agree 100 per cent. A lot of people feel that because Orlu has dominated governance in Imo State since the dawn of this democracy in 1999, that it is Eldarado in Orlu but the reverse is the case. Orlu lacks everything infrastructure, Orlu lacks everything meaningful development. It is of recent, from the administration of Governor Hope Uzodinma that we began to witness serious infrastructure like roads and other infrastructure.  The eight years of Owelle Rochas Okorocha was the years of locust. Though he was from Ideato South with me, his administration was for only himself and his family. He ruled Imo state like the Biblical King Ahab. Even as a senator representing Imo West, the same is the case. Go all over Orlu, you cannot see his constituency projects. You cannot see any Federal Government project that he attracted by virtue of his office as a senator. Currently, insecurity is ravaging Orlu Zone and the governor is working alone. The senator from his own zone is feeling less concerned. That is why we want Izunaso back to the Senate because when he was there between 2007 to 2011, his impact was felt because he was very active. For instance, in a mid-term evaluation of Senators in May 2009, ThisDay noted that Izunaso has sponsored bills for the conveyance of persons in articulated vehicles bill, treatment and care of victims of conflict, National Agency for the promotion and preservation of local languages in Nigeria and Amendment of the oil pipelines Act. He was also contributing to plenary debates and was very active in committees.That is the type of person we need to represent us at the Senate.