From Desmond Mgboh, Kano Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Nigeria Police in Kano Thursday said it declined to give approval to the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) to host its presidential campaign rally/procession in the state for security reasons. Kano State Commissioner of Police Mohammad Yakubu disclosed this shortly after a crucial security meeting with the officers of the Command on Thursday The Commissioner disclosed that three political parties in the state had applied to hold their respective campaign rallies/ procession in the state on the same Thursday adding that there was no way these parties would hold these rallies/processions without a clash or without breaching the security of the state. He explained that after a series of meetings with his officers. they resolved that it was in the best interest of all to advise the parties to discontinue their planned occasion. He said the position has been conveyed to these parties adding that while two of the parties were satisfied with the reason, one was unsatisfied and opposed to the security advice. Daily Sun observed that the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPC) is unlikely to cancel their rally/ procession as many of their supporters were already on the streets as at press time. It could be recalled that the presidential candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party, Engineer Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso had planned to hold a grand rally/procession in the state to mark the end of his nationwide campaign programme. If allowed to hold, this rally will co-occur with the state campaign rallies of the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party. Meanwhile. the Assistant Inspector General of Police. Zone 1, Sani Bello, has warned his officers to be neutral. apolitical, and fair in dealing with members of the public. He however charged them to be firm and decisive to trouble makers and to anyone trying to undermine the peace of the zone during the 2023 General Elections.