From Jeff Amechi Agbodo, i The Civil Liberties Organization (CLO) appealed to Nigerians, especially those of the southeast zone, to come out en masse to cast their votes during the February 25th presidential and National Assembly and March 11th governorship and House of Assembly elections. The Chairman of Anambra State branch of CLO Mr. Vincent Ekwueme in a statement titled “our destiny are in our hands, let us get it right” urge INEC, Security personnels, political gladiators to ensure peaceful, credible election. He also urged the people surmount all odds and hinderance to go their polling units to cast their votes. “For us to enthroned good governance and servants leaders, we must all participates in 2023 general elections and vote in selfless, patriotic, God fearing, charismatic servant leaders. According to Robert Reich “inequality undermine the mutuality, patriotism confidence, trust on which responsibilities of citizens depends’. “It is only justice, equality, equity, egalitarianism and inclusiveness that precipitate peaceful coexistence and rapid socioeconomic development of our dear country. “We solicits for all Nigerians to allow spirit and principles of social justice, good conscience and morality in electing our political leaders during 2023 general elections. “Let us elects meritocracy instead of mediocrity based on competent, character, capacity, capability and contentment. “INEC, Security personnel, political gladiators, stakeholders and civil society organizations should works assiduously towards ensuring peaceful, credible and generally acceptable elections.INEC and Security personnel should bars party agents from staying closer to voting cubicle as it exacerbates vote buying, corruption and impunity. “It is very unfortunate, condemnable and despicable that party agents watch voters to ensure that they vote for candidates of their choice before they will pay them agreed amount for buying their votes. “Strict actions baring party agents and politicians from staying closer to voting cubicle will discourage and minimize vote buying which is a great threat to our democracy and democratic culture and good governance. “Finally the future and betterment of our country and our children depends on your vote .Votes with your conscience and conviction in order to take back our country and make it to be counted among industrialized nations CLO chairman stated. CLO further decried with great disdain the closure of markets by APGA government for flag-off their electioneering campaigns at this period of economic hardships, sufferings and unbearable pains due to naira redesign and charged Government to be sensitive and always show love, empathy, care and concern for the plights and predicaments of her citizens.