Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Fred Ezeh, Abuja Fulani Socio-cultural Association, Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, has distanced itself from speculations that its support and endorsement was secured by the highest bidder participating in the 2023 general elections. The Association, however, maintained its position to queue behind the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, in the coming presidential election, adding that not a dime was given to it for the support and endorsement. It added that the endorsement was based on conviction that the APC presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has and will protect the interest of the Fulani Pastoralists across the country. The Association’s President, Alhaji Bello Bodejo, in a statement, explained that the only thing about the Fulani is that once they endorse you, they are in solidarity with you. “The person, who is accusing the APC of giving us money, let him also go and collect his own from the party. Nobody gave us any money. We are not doing it because of money but for the good of the country and our people. “We want our interest fully captured in areas like creating grazing reserves, cattle routes and tackling other challenges that the Fulani Pastoralists are having in the country, and how we can have a good understanding with APC in the management of Fulani affairs. “We are not looking for any kobo from anybody. I am the leader of the Association, and if there was any monetary transaction before the endorsement, I would have said so, but there wasn’t anything like that. “However, anybody who is accusing us of collecting money to endorse the ruling party should prove it. Besides, Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore Association is not a political party. “I am the leader of the Fulani and I decided to contact some of our strong members all over the country, including the Fulani Youths when the request for the endorsement came. After several meetings and consultations that lasted for over three months, we decided to follow APC. “Senator Kashim Shettima, the Vice Presidential candidate, and the National Chairman of the party, Senator Dr. Abdullahi Adamu, had came to our office to seek our support and that was why we endorsed them. “If you are in your house and somebody looks for direction to your house and implores your support, after listening, you will welcome him and follow him. We have to follow them because they recognized us,” he explained. He also confirmed that in Bauchi State, the Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed, is in the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), and they have endorsed him as their choice candidate to continue with his good works.