From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja Please enable JavaScript Coalition of Social Work Professional Associations has appealed to United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF), to help set up the Council, its accreditation processes, its data system as well as the records of professionals to give bite to the new Nigerian Council for Social Work (NCSW) Act, 2023. According to a statement by Director, Press and Public Relations, Olujimi Oyetomi, they made appeal during a visit Tuesday to express appreciations to UNICEF through its Deputy Representative in Nigeria, Aboubacry Tall and the Chief of Child Protection, Ibrahim Sesay, at the UN House, Abuja. Abubakar Bichi, the immediate past President of Association of Medical Social Workers who led the delegation, appreciated UNICEF for the consistent support towards the promulgation of an act on the establishment of the Nigeria Council for Social Work. The presentation of an award of a steadfastness and dependability was made by the current President of the Association of Medical Social Work of Nigeria (AMSWON), Mr. Kayode Ogedengbe to the UNICEF, Nigeria. A beautiful flex-banner which summarizes the motive of the social work professionals’ visit to UNICEF was also presented to adorn the premises of the UN-House as a reminder of the role of UNICEF in the promulgation of the Social Work Act. The Nigerian Council for Social Work (NCSW) Act, 2023 was recently passed by the National Assembly and assented to by the President, Muhammadu Buhari, to regulate the framework, monitor and control social work practise in the country and bring it in tandem with global best practises. The social work discipline is an applied behavioural profession that promotes human rights, social justice, peace and conflict resolution while also engendering social change, problem-solving and sustainable development in human relationships. Bichi said since the new law entails setting up the “Nigeria Council for Social Work” in Nigeria, requested that UNICEF which deployed a lot of resources and support input along with other governmental and non-governmental organisations to ensure the passage of the National Council for Social Work Establishment Bill, 2022 into the new Act, should ensure that the new professionals get it right, with the registration of professionals, the constitution of the Council and Structure for its running. He added that, the standards of knowledge and skills expected of those seeking to be registered as Social Workers have to be right and be reviewed as time and circumstances demand. He said social workers play the important roles in the life of an individual, family, group, community and organization who may come to distress, the homeless, persons with disabilities, the aged, the sick, the mentally ill, young persons and elderly requiring assistance. He added that social workers are found in hospitals, family courts, schools, correctional facilities, old peoples homes, police establishment providing psycho-social support. In response, the Deputy Country Representative of UNICEF in Nigeria stated that the social work professionals were being modest in ascribing a great role to UNICEF in bringing about the passage of the new Act which he said is truly deserving of celebration. “You built the foundation; you have put on the roof on the house; now, all that’s left is for us to do is to furnish it and live in it together. UNICEF and others like it can only achieve results when we work with people who not only know where they are and where they’re going are willing to stand and fight for what they believe in. It is only together in sincere partnership that we can make significant results.” The Deputy country representative added that “We found you guys at work, and we only steped in to help move it because it fits into the mandate of UNICEF to support the works you’ve been doing. He urged the Government to invest more in people; the human capital rather than in infrastructure, so as to create a work force that will maintain the wealth of the nation. The Deputy-Rep urged the social work professionals to continue building and expanding the frontier of social work-force in Nigeria and pledged on behalf of the Country Rep of UNICEF in Nigeria, Ms. Cristian Muduate to continue to support social work in Nigeria. The Chief of Child Protection of UNICEF, Ibrahim Sesay revealed that UNICEF already has a draft for setting up the Council, the accreditation processes, the draft for the data system as well as the criteria for enrolment of professionals in place, which he said will be part of the key requirements that will help in kick starting the council. He revealed that the next step is a call for action.