By Billy Graham Abel Yola  The Adamawa state chapter of the All Progressives Congress has described as false, mischievous and divisive the claims by some unknown person that the APC National Vice Chairman, Northeast, Comrade Salisu Mustapha has been suspended from the party for six months. The state working committee led by the state secretary of the party, states categorically, that it has not taken such actions or is in-the-know of any of such action taken by a known human being against a respected leader of the party, hence, the party debunked the said suspension as null and void. This is contained in a press statement issued by the state secretary of the Party, Raymond Chidama, in Yola, Adamawa state. The state secretary of the party, Chidima called on the general public to totally disregard the rumour as an act of mischief makers and the handiworks of the enemies of the party who are so afraid of the overwhelming goodwill the party is enjoying from the good people of Adamawa. Chidama said, “We advise faithful members of our party to disregard such publication.” In another swift reaction to the said suspension of the APC chieftain, the chairman of Rumde ward, Abdulkadir Abdullahi, has denied any claims of suspension of the APC northeast party chieftain him or any other executive member of the ward. Abdulkadir said he and his Ward party officials have not contemplated suspending Salisu or imagined suspending Salisu Mustapha.  He said, “Our ward has been the most peaceful ward in the country and our ward members and Mustapha have been enjoying a cordial relationship. Abdulkadir speaking at a press conference in Yola said, “In my capacity as the ward chairman of Rumde ward, I stand to say this is not true and can’t be possible because nothing as such ever happened. “I am therefore calling on all APC Supporters and loyalists of our great party to remain calm and peaceful especially as we head into the elections season coming ahead, ” Abdulkadir confirms.  Abdulkadir further explained that, all the party’s executive members in Rumde ward have unanimously endorsed Salihu Mustapha and are calling on the general public to disregard the suspension as a rumour designed to cause disaffection within the party ranks ahead of the elections..