•Gets more endorsements By Kenneth Udeh  Senate Chief Whip, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, has ended his over three-week long campaign to solicit votes for his re-election bid in Abia North senatorial district. The lawmaker’s last campaign was to Umunneochi Local Government Area wards of Lokpanta, Lokpanta cattle market, Lekwesi, Lokpaukwu and Leru where he received additional gale of endorsements from the electorate. The lawmaker has held fruitful interactions with his constituents in the entire 103 ABSIEC Wards of the senatorial district on the need for his return to the senate. As attested by his constituents, Kalu showcased his scorecard of infrastructural,  empowerment and legislative exploits within three and a half years at the senate, including his next agenda to consolidate on ongoing and completed projects. Along with his entourage, the former Abia governor paid homage to the Regent of Lokpanta, Udumeze III of Lokpanta, Eze Sir Ifeanyi Anthony.   While throwing his weight behind Kalu’s aspiration, the monarch recalled Kalu’s efforts in developing the state throughout his eight year tenure as governor.  The monarch praised Kalu for carrying out effective and result oriented projects. He drew Kalu’s attention to the security issues between the boundary community and Ebonyi State, appealing to Kalu to call relevant authorities to mediate in the matter to avert communal clashes. A beneficiary of Kalu’s cassava processing machine, Njoku Jacynthia who spoke at Lokpanta lauded the lawmaker for the initiative, saying the machines were so useful to farmers. Njoku, a former teacher recalled how Kalu placed premium on workers and students welfare during his tenure as governor. “As a senator we now enjoy some of those things he did in the past by building our schools, roads, water, giving our children free textbooks, and the recent distribution of cassava milling machines to women has filled us with so much joy. We will all vote for him massively come February 25,” Njoku said.  In Umunneochi, chieftain of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Emeka Okafor endorsed the candidature of Kalu given his accomplishments. He said Kalu’s re-election was beyond political affiliation, but a collective responsibility of all residents. Trooping out in their large numbers, dwellers at the Lokpanta Cattle market Ward, gave their nod for Kalu’s re-election after their interaction led by the Secretary General Cattle Market Association, Prince Auwal Hamma. According to Auwal they could bear witness to his infrastructural works in Umunneochi saying that there was no need to campaign as their votes belonged solely to him. The newly constructed road at Amorji, Lekwesi was described as the best gift they ever received from the government, during Kalu’s interaction with the community. Its traditional leader, Orji of Amorji, Eze Nwankwo Abel Nwafor conveyed gratitude for speedily fulfilling the promise he made to the community in August last year as the road was now fully completed with double drainages. He pledged to mobilise his community to ensure Kalu gets all the votes. President General of Amorji, Lekwesi, Mgbeke Basil also showered encomiums on Kalu for creating an enabling environment for rural communities to thrive saying that his return was a done deal. More endorsements poured in for Kalu as stalwart of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and community leader, Igwe Sopuruchi commended Kalu for giving the community its first tarred road. According to him they would vote for Kalu as he had rekindled their trust in the government of the APC.  Kalu was shown gratitude for raising successful politicians from Umunneochi extraction at “Lokpaukwu” in a speech given by President General of Lokpaukwu, Hyginus Eze. According to him Kalu gave the community political inclusion, stating that they would repay him with their votes. In his response, Senator Kalu acknowledged the community’s appreciation for backing his re-election and construction of the Enugu – Lokpanta – Aba – Port Harcourt expressway by the APC-led Federal Government.  In reaction to their requests, Kalu gave assurance that he would expedite action for the construction of the Amorji/Obiulor/Lekwesi Ring Road, adding that more projects and empowerments would be executed immediately he is re-elected.