From Judex Okoro, Calabar A former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Board of Trustees (BoT) member, Ntunkae Grace Oyo-Ita, has stated that Cross River is in dire need of a unifier and a performer as governor to steer the state of the present decay. Speaking with journalists on the negative turn of events in the last seven-and-half-years in Calabar on Thursday, Oyo-Ita, said the state have been taken back to the dark age in terms of development and sharply divided along ethnic line. She however noted that Sen. Sandy Onor, PDP governorship candidate, would make the difference having followed his political trajectory since 1999, adding that the PDP candidate had prepared himself for governance haven served as council chairman, former commissioner and now a Senator. Oyo-Ita, one of the foundation members of PDP, pointed out that Onor did not just served in those capacities but excelled where his tenure as a council chairman of Etung remained a reference point in the history of the local government and the State in general. According to her, “the present situation in the economy and social political live of Cross River demand a radical reformer and a unifier that can change the narrative for the greatest good of the people. “Without being sentimental, Onor is poles ahead of his opponents and he is what Cross River needs at this critical time. He is a very sound young man, i have known him for a very long time, he is very sound with a good soul. Onor is a thorough person who will be able to change the situation in this state.” Speaking on the back-to-south agitation, she maintained that the agitation was not only out of order, but an interest being pushed by few individuals for their personal benefit. She pointed out that the Efiks have always had the benefit of anything that comes to the south senatorial district of the state to the detriment of their Akamkpa and Biase brothers other council areas in the district. “The Efiks are not the only people in the south here. We have the Ejagham people in Biase, Municipality, Akamkpa, in Odukpani, Bakassi and Calabar South.  So you cannot just say it should return to south. It should be specific because oir Efick brothers have gone before and it’s another’s turn,” she stated. Condemning the recent verbal assault on two former governors Donald Duke and Liyel Imoke by Sen. Florence Ita Giwa, she said: “I am shokcked at what the former Senator  Ita Giwa said because she is supposed to settle issues and make peace. “Ayade is my son, Prince Otu is my brother, Donald and Liyel are my younger brothers. So, as a mother and senior sister, if they quarrel what is expected of me and Mma Florence is to call them to order, settle issues with them and make peace. The former senator representing the southern Senatorial district, Se. Florenece Ita Giwa had during one of the campaigns rallies in south derided former governor Duke, saying ” the former governors came to the state with a briefcase and squatted in a friend’s house.” End