From Aidoghie Paulinus,  Abuja Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The United States Government, has said that the signing of the 2022 Electoral Act is one of the reasons it has confidence in the ability of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to organise and conduct credible and transparent elections in the forthcoming polls.   United States Ambassador to Nigeria, Mary Beth  Leonard, in an op-ed made available to Saturday Sun, listed the ability to use the Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) to accredit voters and transmit election results electronically and voting by persons with disabilities as some of the reasons the United States has confidence in INEC. In the op-ed titled “The Elections Are Almost Here.  It’s Up to You to Choose Your Next Leaders,” Leonard emphasised that the United States does not support any single candidate.  She added that the United  States’ only interest is in a fair democratic process that reflects the will of the Nigerian people.   “Elections are a celebration of freedom and choice.  The Nigerian people are fortunate to live in a country where they hold the power to determine the country’s next leader, but with that comes the responsibility to be involved, informed, and make their votes count.  The U.S. Embassy urges all registered Nigerians to vote in the elections of February and March.  “Since 1999, Nigeria has demonstrated a strong commitment to peaceful, credible, inclusive, and transparent elections.  Having arrived in Nigeria over three years ago, I’ve witnessed critical changes that reinforce elections that can reflect the will of its citizens.  Last year President Buhari and key stakeholders signed the Electoral Act of 2022, strengthening Nigeria’s electoral system and cementing Nigeria as a democratic leader in a region that has been experiencing backsliding.  The U.S. government applauds that Act, which formally granted INEC the ability to use “BVAS” – the Bimodal Voters Accreditation System – to accredit voters and transmit election results electronically.  This type of system is a proven method to significantly reduce the potential for electoral fraud.  We also welcomed the law’s provisions that facilitate voting by persons with disabilities, which are an important step towards ensuring accessibility for all voters.  These developments are just some of the reasons the United States has confidence in Nigeria’s Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC) ability to organize and conduct credible and transparent elections.    “The U.S. also welcomes the work of the National Peace Committee, a vital player in helping to ensure that the electoral process is carried out in an environment of calm and respect for the rights of others.  I was among the many observers at the late September signing of the first of the NPC’s two peace accords, and was reassured by the pledge of all 18 political parties and presidential tickets to run campaigns free of violence and inflammatory rhetoric.  As election day nears, I urge the political parties and candidates to live up to their pledge.  There will soon be another opportunity to reaffirm their commitment to the democratic process by signing the second peace accord, in which they pledge to accept the results of the elections as announced by INEC,” Leonard said. As part of the United  States commitment to robust and transparent elections, Leonard further reiterated that the United States had taken steps to impose visa restrictions against those responsible, or complicit in, undermining the democratic process in the past, and remain willing to do so again going forward.    She stated that the commitment to peaceful, credible elections does not rest solely with politicians and nongovernmental organizations, adding that the Nigerian public must remember that with the power to elect leaders also comes the responsibility to do so peacefully at the ballot box.  Leonard explained that voters can play their part to ensure successful elections by remembering to bring their valid PVC to vote on election day, know their polling unit ahead of election day, find out where the candidates stand on issues that matter to Nigerians, while also saying that on election day, Nigerians should vote their conscience. According to Leonard,  “The only election poll results that matter are the ones that INEC will announce after the voting is finished.  Election days often bring surprises, and no outcome is preordained by pre-election predictions.  “I would like to conclude by emphasizing that the United States does not support any single candidate.  Our only interest is in a fair democratic process that reflects the will of the Nigerian people.  Participating in elections is a key freedom that many people in countries around the world do not have.  No matter which political party you support, your vote matters.  Go vote in February and March 2023.  In doing so, you will make Nigeria proud as a leader and beacon for democracy.”