From Tony Osauzo, Benin  The Ambassador of Republic of Angola to Nigeria, Benin and Niger, His Excellency, Eustaqui Quibato, has disclosed that Benin Empire and Angola are intertwined through Portuguese Ambassadorial’ links. He stated this when he took a duty tour to Oba of Benin palace in Benin where he further revealed that their colonizers (Portuguese) left traces of their history in Benin Empire. Recall that the diplomatic Relations between Benin Empire and Portugal began during the 13th Century reign of Oba Esigie — the first Benin monarch to have contact with Europeans, read and write as well as speak Portuguese language. This was before the Portuguese in their colonial expansion came to Angola and colonized the territory several years after the ancient Benin Empire and Portugal were both Sovereigns and had Diplomatic Relations. Ambassador Quibato, while ddressing the Benin throne, said it was a great pleasure to visit the Oba palace and the monarch. He highlighted the giant strides of the Oba during his diplomatic sojourn to several nations, including Angola and thereafter solicited for prayers from the Oba. “I have the honour and pleasure to be here today. It is a great pleasure not only because I am in the palace, but for the link, our ancestry in this Kingdom.  “As you know, our Colonizers (Portuguese) also came here (Benin Kingdom Centuries ago. They (Portuguese) left part of their history here (Benin Kingdom).  “You (Oba of Benin) spent part of your life in Angola. It means that this is our Constituency”, Ambassador Quibato declared. Responding, the Oba of Benin, Oba  Ewuare II, CFR, shared some remarkable experience about his diplomatic mission to Angola and other countries before he ascended the throne of his forbears. He also conveyed his good wishes to leaders in the Mission, his friends and well-wishers at the global stage through Ambassador Quibato. The climax of the visit was Ambassador Quibato’s presentation of souvenir to the Benin throne to mark the historic event.