•As CDS assures elections’ll hold in South East, others •FG warns embassies to stop issuing frivolous travel advisories  From Adetutu Folasade-Koyi, Abuja Minister of Defence, Major General Bashir Magashi (retd) has said the armed forces is overstretched because of inadequate manpower and numerous security challenges confronting the nation. He also said the military had decimated terrorists in the North East and saved the country more than N158 billion by stopping crude oil theft in the Niger Delta. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “As at 2022, Nigeria with an estimated population of about 220 million people has a total military strength of about 223,000 personnel. This gives a ratio of military personnel to population of approximately 11,000. This is lower than those of Nigeria’s neighbours except Niger (Republic)…As far as we are concerned, no part of the country is held by Boko Haram.”  Magashi spoke at the 25th edition of the PMB Administration scorecard series (2015-2023), in Abuja, yesterday. In addressing the challenge, the minister stressed the need to enhance the capacity of the Police and other para-military agencies to enable them discharge their primary responsibility of internal security. He said  Nigeria also needed consistent recruitment of about 12, 000 soldiers bi-annually to enhance the capabilities of the military to meet the security challenges of the country. Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Leo Irabor, who spoke after Magashi said  unlike before, Boko Haram has no hold or presence in the Nigerian territory. Asked whether elections would hold in the South East, against the backdrop of criminality, attacks on INEC facilities, security officials and otter persons in the region, Irabor who led the three service chiefs to the event said: “…On the South East, we are conducting a joint operation, Operation Udo Ka; it’s all geared towards finding some sanity to bear in the entire region and ensure that citizens, especially those in the South East, have the confidence to go out and exercise their franchise come February 25, as well as March 11.  Rest assured that elections will hold in all parts of the country, especially in the North East and South East. The Armed Forces is working in concert with the Police and other security agencies to ensure that the menace of criminality is mitigated. “No territory is under control of Boko Haram as the minister has mentioned. There are only criminal elements…we have not seized operations in the North East. You may ask why do we still have operations in the North East if we have liberated all the communities in the North East? Well, there are a few stragglers amongst them…The final cleansing is on and the report that we have currently validated the position the minister has given, with respect to the fact that there is no territory of this country, including the North East, that is under the control of any of these criminal elements but that does not imply that they are not making attempts…we are making sure that they do not exist,” Irabor said. Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, warned embassies to stop issuing frivolous travel advisories on Nigeria. He said despite the travel advisories issued by the United Kingdom and United States of America embassies over an impending terrorist attack, Abuja remains safe and peaceful. “Let me seize this occasion to commend our security agencies for their sacrifices to keep us safe. Recall, ladies and gentlemen, that in October 2022, the US and UK embassies in Nigeria issued travel advisories warning their citizens to avoid Abuja due to the risk of a terrorist attack. This advisory created much panic in the country.  As a matter of fact, a number of Americans were reported to have fled Abuja in the wake of the warning. “Recall, also, that in our reaction to the advisory, we reassured Nigerians and non-Nigerians living in the country of their safety and noted that our security agencies are on top of the matter. Almost three months after the frivolous advisory, residents of Abuja have been going about their businesses without any threat…”