By Chinelo Obogo and Henry Uche  A coalition of four political parties in Lagos State have endorsed Bola Tinubu, APC presidential candidate.  The coalition comprises Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), National Rescue Movement (NRM), Allied People’s Movement (APM) and Action People’s Party (APP). Chairman of ZLP,  Adenipebi Adekunle, who addressed newsmen in Lagos, yesterday, said Tinubu was endorsed for his stance on true federalism, state police and economic programmes outlined for the country. “Tinubu is the only governor during his time  who believed in true federalism and state policing. We are endorsing him at this eleventh hour because we took time to get the support of other political parties who saw reason with us in endorsing him. We believe he would do better if elected,” he said. Speaking shortly after the endorsement, Lagos State chairperson of NMR, Temilola Akinade, lauded Tinubu for impacting on human capital development.  Chairperson of APM, Mrs. Bumi Adeyemo and her counterpart in APP, Mrs. Abiola Adeyemo unanimously expressed confidence in the candidacy of Tinubu, saying: “We believe he can do the job despite all odds.” Similarly, House Of Assembly candidates of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in six states of South West have endorsed the Tinubu/shettima presidential candidature. Addressing newsmen in Lagos, yesterday, candidate for Ikorodu constituency 01, Anulogun Adebayo Taofeek, said Tinubu was endorsed because of his pedigree. “We reached the decision sequence to our thorough analysis of all the presidential candidates, including our own, their antecedents, pedigree, manifestos and broad acceptance across the country.  From the foregoing, there is no doubt that Tinubu/Shettima combination stand head and shoulder above the rest.  Our democratic history will be grossly incomplete if generous pages are not dedicated to Asiwaju’s contribution to our democratic struggles and his landmark achievements as the governor of Lagos State,” he said.  Taofeek maintained that Tinubu’s consistency as a progressive democrat is worthy of emulation by all budding politicians, noting that the group observed at close range his energetic campaign through the nooks and crannies of the country.