From Abel Leonard, Lafia Speaker of the Nasarawa State House of Assembly, Ibrahim Balarabe Abdullahi, has expressed optimism that Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu the APC Presidential candidate will win the forthcoming elections with landslide victory. The Speaker stated this while addressing the people of Ugya ward of his constituency at the weekend ahead of the Saturday’s elections. Balarabe urged electorate in Ugya and other wards of his constituency to vote for, Sen. Bola Tinubu, the APC presidential candidate and Gov. Abdullahi Sule, himself and other candidates of the party in the forthcoming February and March elections. He said that the work of Gov Sule is every where in the Constituency and beyond while calling on the people to reciprocate Gov. Sule’s gesture by returning him for another term to the Governmet House come March election. Balarabe added that Gov. abdullahi has brought permanent peace to not only Ugya/ Umaisha constituency but Toto LGA and the state at large. ” I am here to thank you for the support you have been given to me as your representative and to solicit for your votes and support to Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Gov. Abdullahi Sule, myself and other APC candidates to succeed beyond 2023. ” Let’s appreciate His Excellency, governor Abdullahi Sule as he has given us every thing in Toto. He brought peace and there is development in every ward of my constituency and Toto Local Government Area. ” I want you not to be deceived by opposition lies against my achievements and that of our Governor, Sule. They will say Balarabe has done nothing and Engr. Sule has done nothing, it is not true. ” My achievements and His Excellency , A A Sule achievements are everywhere in the Constituency and our people have benefited a lot and still benefitting and we will win our election by God’s grace,” he said. “our achievements are clear and open for e every body to see and even touch, the oppositions have nothing to tell or offer that is why they resulted to blackmailing, don’t listen to them, we are focused and will remain focused as victory is ours by his grace. Balarabe urged the people to come out en mass to vote him, Sen. Bola Tinubu and Gov. Abdullahi Sule as well as other candidates of the party during the February and March elections while calling on the people to remain peaceful, before, during and after the elections. The Speaker re-assured of all inclusive and purposeful leadership, if voted for another term. Daily Sun reports that the campaign rally in Ugya, the Speaker received over 400 decampees in Ugya and surrounding villages from opposition parties to the ruling APC.