By Kenneth Udeh As Senator Orji Uzor Kalu gradually wraps up his re-election campaign tour, his Igbere wards  B, C (Amankalu) and A constituents have throw their weight behind him. At a reception in his honour at the weekend, the senatorial flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who hails from Igbere suburban town in Bende LGA of Abia State in Abia North was praised by his people for making them proud during his tenure at the National Assembly. The former Abia State governor had within the past few weeks embarked on a campaign tour to engage his constituents in the entire 103 ABSIEC Wards on the need to support his return to the Senate. Kalu received unanimous endorsements from all strata of his constituents who described his first term as superlative.  In  their submissions, they said Kalu’s tenure had been profitable to them even as they declared the willingness to vote him during the February 25 poll. They said the lawmaker exceeded their expectations and pledged to vote for his return to consolidate on his run of infrastructural projects facilitated in their region was imperative. Community stakeholders at Igbere Ward B described the awards bestowed on Kalu within his three-year plus tenure by reputable organisations as a pride to their communities. Speaking on their behalf, Elder of the community, Chief Peter Igwe said the awards were true attestations of Kalu’s landmark achievements in constituency development saying they were blessed to have him as a son.  The emergence of Kalu as the senator with the highest number of bills amongst his Abia counterparts was saluted at Igbere Ward C, as his constituents applauded the lawmaker for the achievement despite being a first time senator.  Prime Minister of Amankalu, Ezeogo Kalu Awa, who spoke on behalf of the people, recalled how Kalu with 25 legislative bills standing in his name was rated best in bill sponsorship using the 2019-2022 cumulative legislative as presented by OrderPaper.ng Nigeria’s parliamentary multimedia platform.  Ezeogo commended Kalu for setting the pace and making their community proud at the senate, declared that they would ensure all their votes go in  his favour. Arriving at his Igbere Ward A, Kalu was lauded for executing laudable projects in the community.  Chieftain of the community, Chief U. E. Obike said the lawmaker was a rare gem and asset to the community and the nation at large. In his remark, Kalu told his constituents that his best was yet to come, saying what he had done, which they consider unprecedented was just a tip of the iceberg. Soliciting their votes, Kalu said  more roads, schools, and agricultural implements would be facilitated immediately he returned. He also appreciated the people for their support and grand reception accorded him. Kalu tasked the electorate to arrive early at polling units in orderly and peaceful manners and to use their index finger and cast their votes beside the APC broom symbol logo on the ballot paper.