From Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja  the P Authority of Heads of State and Government of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), has hailed the Federal Government over preparation for the 2023 elections. The commendation came at the weekend when the ECOWAS leaders convened an extraordinary summit to examine the progress made with the transitions in Burkina Faso, Guinea, and Mali, as well as the level of preparations for elections in Nigeria, Sierra Leone, and Liberia. The meeting which took place on the margins of the 36th Ordinary Session of the African Union Assembly in Ethiopia, Addis Ababa under the Chairmanship of Umaro Sissoco Embalo, President of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau and Chair of ECOWAS Authority, also deliberated on the update on the establishment of a Regional Force against Terrorism and for the restoration of constitutional order, and a briefing on the outcome of the EU-ECOWAS Political Dialogue that took place in Brussels, between February 6 and 7. The Authority called on the ECOWAS Commission to expedite the review of the 2001 Supplementary Protocol on Democracy and Good Governance, and ensure the completion of the project, with a view to strengthening democratic conduct and stability in the region. “The Authority commends the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the efforts deployed so far aimed at securing a secure environment for the peaceful conduct of the general elections. “The Heads of State and Government instructs the President of the Commission to provide the necessary technical assistance in support of the general elections through the deployment of short and long-term observation missions,” the statement read. On the establishment of a regional Force against terrorism and restoration of constitutional order in the sub-region, the ECOEAS Authority of Heads of State and Government received briefing on the outcome of the extraordinary meeting of the ECOWAS Committee of Chiefs of Defence Staff and Chiefs of Intelligence on the establishment of a regional force against terrorism and for the restoration of constitutional order, held in Bissau, Republic of Guinea Bissau, on 19 December 2022. The Heads of State and Government noted the progress made in the efforts to establish a regional force to combat terrorism and deter unconstitutional changes in government.  this end, the Authority instructed the President of the Commission to engage with all member states, particularly those severely impacted by the situation, on the way forward. “The Heads of State and Government instructed the President of the ECOWAS Commission to engage with the Member States to agree on the modalities for the mobilization of one (1) billion US dollars, mandatory contributions towards counter terrorism efforts under the 2020-2024 Plan of Action.” “The Authority reiterated serious concerns over the flow of illicit arms and ammunitions, including improvised explosive devices and unmanned aerial vehicles into the region that has enabled violent extremists and terrorist and other armed groups to control large swathes of territory and terrorize communities. “The Heads of State and Government strongly condemned the entities that are financing and enabling terrorism in the region and admonished them to desist from the nefarious acts,” the communique also read.