CAN cautions against inflammatory comments Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Gyang Bere, Jos Plateau State governorship candidates running in the March 11 state election have signed a peace commitment to conduct themselves and their supporters in a peaceful manner during and after polls. The candidates signed the peace pact Tuesday, January 31, during an interactive section with the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), held at St Michael’s Catholic Church, Zawang in Jos South Local Government Area of Plateau State where they also expressed commitment to shun violence. Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Barr. Caleb Mutfwang said his campaigns are predicated on civility, politeness and issues driven. He noted that he is committed to peace coupled with his political philosophy of reclaiming, securing and rebuilding the state which has suffered due to inept leadership. “We believe that after the elections, all of us are Plateau people and there is no need to put any life in jeopardy because of an election. “We have always been committed to peace because our key agenda is to promote peace and that is why we signed this accord to demonstrate our commitment to peace,” he added. His counterpart in the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr Nentawe Yilwatda, said the pact would help enshrine peace in the structures of politics in the state. He assured that he will continue to stand for peace as he has always stood as a man of peace; adding that he will not do anything that will undermine the current peace in the state. Yilwatda noted that as a Christian, he knows that Christ is the Prince of Peace and that any society built on peace would thrive better and that has been his yearning and aspiration for Plateau. Similarly, the governorship candidate of the Labour Party, Dr Patrick Dakum, said peace remained one of the essential products for a civil and progressive society and vowed to uphold peace during and after the elections. Dakum explained that he has given a directive to his supporters to conduct themselves in a peaceful manner during the election campaigns. The Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Plateau State Rev Fr Polycarp Lubo, cautioned the candidates against inflammatory utterances and actions that would lead to violence and bloodshed during the 2023 elections. He said the essence of the peace pact by CAN, was to ensure that the candidates and their parties do not take laws into their hands as they solicit votes. Lubo advised the candidates that if they have any concerns, then should follow the legal procedures to address their issues, and not resort to self-help or violence. “We don’t want bloodshed in Plateau because of politics. Most times we have crises because we mix politics with religion and we don’t want anything that will puncture the relative peace we are currently enjoying,” he said. Fr. Lubo stressed that only one out of the candidates would emerge as the governor of the state in fulfilment of God’s purpose. He commended the candidates for turning out for the peace pact, saying the meeting was also for CAN leaders including those in local governments to physically see, interact and also pray for them. “Our job as CAN is to pray and support the government of the day to succeed, We don’t hesitate to draw the attention of the leader when he/she veers off the right direction. All of us have a duty and responsibility to tell our people to get their PVCs and vote for the right candidates both in the state and at the national level,” he added. CAN urged all Christians on the Plateau that even as they exercise their franchise in electing credible leaders, they should as well abstain from any unwanted act by the law.