Wow, thank you so much uncle.  I do remember some of the cover pages of Weekend Concord.  I even remember the story about the Alaafin!  I hope you and your family are well.  As you have continuously honoured mummy, others will surely honour you in Jesus’s name—Dr. Doyin Abiola’s daughter, Doyin  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. A very good piece you wrote on your former boss in a piece titled: “WOMAN WHO TOOK A BIG RISK ON ME: DR. DOYIN ABIOLA.”  Happy birthday to her.  I didn’t know she’s already 80.  Media and people in the creative sector don’t seem to grow old.  They are as young as their hearts—Kote Obe-Eleme The great Mike.    Yes, Weekend Concord was a huge success, a beautiful read then on Saturdays—Bayo Onanuga   Happy birthday to Dr. Doyin Abiola.  May God continue to bless and protect you.  You impacted our lives positively.  And to the editor of editors, Mike Awoyinfa, my boss both in Concord and The Sun.  I thank you profusely for also banking on us.  May you live a healthy and fulfilled life—Emeka Okoroanyanwu  You nailed it boss.  Thank you also for spotting the talents in us and assembling such a great team as your pioneer crewmembers.  The technology of those days was limiting but we used our God-given talents to design a beautiful, readable newspaper that stood out distinctively in the marketplace. You brought out the best in all of us.  I enjoyed every moment and I am proud to be one of those who made the Weekend Concord list.  Thank you once again sir—Olugbenga Opebi Your Saturday Sun back page column on “WOMAN WHO TOOK A BIG RISK ON ME: DR DOYIN ABIOLA” is such a lovely piece.  It is not just journalists and social historians who will find this story useful.  Every business student or researcher will appreciate this story, a compelling example of foresight, innovation, adaptation, courage and grit, as well as innovation by a business leader—C. Don Adinuba Congratulations sir on your piece on Dr. Doyin Abiola at 80.  To God be the glory.  Great things He had done—Kemosticated Bae Thanks for bringing back memories of Weekend Concord, a paper we all loved in those good old days.  You and Dr. Doyin Abiola changed the face and phase of journalism in Nigeria—Olayinka Oyegbile Oga Mike, my all-time Weekend Concord article is the one titled SHINAMANIA! crafted by Dele Momodu—Ike Okonta For me, Weekend Concord was a “school” where I was lucky to have worked and learnt so much about journalism and life in general.  If you were lucky to have worked in Weekend Concord, you can do wonders anywhere.  Oga Mike, my master, I thank you for spotting me out way back.  I can never forget you.  You name is written in gold—Ashamu Adegbola In the media, you are the precious stone.  Your impacts, unknown to you, sir, live in me till this and other Saturdays when my paper, The Taboid.net, recreated from your workshop will be served.  Congratulations Mama Doyin, the doyen—Tunde Busari Without the Weekend Concord, I won’t be the person that I am today.  Simple.  Thank you, Mike.  And thanks to the people who played music for you—Rudolf Ogoo Okonkwo Happy 80th birthday to a great icon captured in the beautiful Saturday Sun back page piece: “WOMAN WHO TOOK A BIG RISK ON ME: DR. DOYIN ABIOLA.”  I wish Dr. Doyinsola Abiola many more fulfilling years on this planet earth, in Jesus’s name, Amen.  And congratulation sir, for the masterpiece on her—Adewusibe Esther “Workshop of my brain.”  Even your ghost, after your departure at a very old age, will continue to craft great headlines—Oyedeji Kayode I read with delight your piece titled: “WOMAN WHO TOOK A BIG RISK ON ME: DR. DOYIN ABIOLA.”  Great testimonial from the master crafter himself.  Weekend Concord blazed the trail for others.  It was indeed a glorious era for newspapering in Nigeria.  Mike Awoyinfa, Sir, your place is assured in the pantheon of great writers—John Joshua   Great update on the memory lane of the Weekend Concord, a paper I remember with great delight.  I may remind you that I wrote the Entertainment column on Page 2 for a couple of years without any remuneration as a Guest Columnist.  I wrote from wherever I was in the world, mostly California but a whole year from either China or Thailand.  It was an exciting time.  Best wishes from me—Dr Tee Mac Omatshola Iseli (MFR) THAT MASTERPIECE BY DIMGBA IGWE’S SON: CHINAZAM I read the “Epistle” by the late Dimgba Igwe’s son to his father in heaven and it provoked tears. Like he prayed, may the children surpass their father in all ramifications and continue to keep the glory of that name aflame through Christ JESUS. May the LORD also reward you mightily for keeping faith with your friendship even in death, which is a rare thing in our clime.  May you live long in good health and sound mind to see the fruits of your labour not just on the Dimgba Igwes but on your own children, grandchildren and great grandchildren in JESUS name.  I am so proud of the testimony of your love and impact on that family—Tope Kayode-Ojo I read the piece “Epistle to Dimgba Igwe, my dad in heaven” and it made me cry, literally. Like Chinazam, I remember crying many nights, thinking if only my dad were here. He too had died from a car accident. Like Chinazam, I remember talking to myself and saying, what are you going to do? My answer was similar to Chinazam’s – get on with your life, pull yourself up with your bootstraps. Like Chinazam, I am grateful that Almighty God sent angels in the form of people, who stepped in at different points in my life’s journey and rescued me from the jaws of hopelessness, despair and a feeling of abandonment. I am greatly indebted to the many who allowed themselves to be used to help me build a life which equipped me to be able to give back to society in many countries of the world.  I have to sing your praise because you are a man who gives without reproach. God bless you my brother and friend—Raheem Ogunde