From Paul Osuyi, Asaba  Residents of Asaba, Delta State capital have continued  to lament the pain they go through to withdraw money from the various ATM points of commercial banks in the state. They said though the ATM points were now dispensing the new currency notes of either N1,000 or N500, the limit of N20,000 remain grossly inadequate to meet their needs in view of the inflationary cost of commodities. Daily Sun investigation of the situation, showed long queues of customers waiting to withdraw cash from banks’ ATM points. Also the cut -throat charges by cash vendors operating PoS businesses have also not helped matters. A customer in one of the bank’s ATM, who gave her name as Rachel Okonkwo, lamented that she came to the bank very early on Thursday aftera failed bid on Wednesday. “When I came yesterday (Wednesday) the queue was long, I was given number 308. But before it got to my turn, they said the machine ran out of cash. So most people left disappointed. “Today (Thursday), I decided to come early because I needed cash to go to the market to prepare meal for the family. I thought I was early but I still met people already waiting. I was given number 59. “But I am happy because I have been able to withdraw money even though it is not up to the amount I intended. At least, we can make something with this one,” she said. Daily Sun observed that customers who came with debit card of the particular bank made withdrawal limit of N20,000 while those who came with the debit card of another bank had a withdrawal limit of N5,000. However, some customers came with multiple debit cards which enabled them to circumvent the withdrawal limit rule. Meanwhile, as at the time of filing this report, operators of PoS business were smiling to the bank as customers who could not stand the hellish queues at banks ATMs made withdrawals through the PoS vendors. The PoS operators were charging customers N2,000 for a withdrawal of N10,000. In some places, the operators charged N1,500.