From Agaju Madugba, Katsina Please enable JavaScript Members of the Progressives Governors’ Forum led by its chairman, Kebbi Governor Atiku Bagudu, danced to welcome the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu, and his running mate, Kashim Shettima to Katsina for their presidential rally. For several minutes they danced to a live music rendition by a popular artist from the North, Raraya. In the midst of the apparent jubilation in anticipation of an APC victory at the forthcoming general elections, various speakers at the rally condemned the recent banditry attack reportedly leading to the death of more than 41 persons at Bakori Local Government of the state. For President Muhammadu Buhari, the issue of insecurity constituted an obstacle for his administration since 2015 when he assumed office. In spite of the hindrances including a drop in crude oil production, Buhari said he performed well even as he equally condemned the Bakori attack. He urged the electorate to vote for the APC presidential candidate and all others contesting various other positions from the party. Addressing the rally earlier, Tinubu said that there was no fundamental difference between the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and bandits terrorising parts of the country, especially the North. He pledged if elected, his government will tackle the insecurity question headlong and warned the people against casting their votes for the PDP. According to Tinubu, “This a progressive Africa and our party is a progressive party. “Will never allow them to come back to you again. We are saying no, no to PDP, no to evil, no, to the killers.” Tinubu assured that those behind the Bakori killings will pay for their crime as he argued that, “they will pay the price because they have committed a heinous crime that is not prescribed by any faith or any believers in the work of Allah and the teaching of the Holly Quran. “We share the joy, we participate in the mourning, we share the sorrow and the pain that you go through but only Allah can relieve the pain of many orphans and many widows he created. “We promise one thing, and many more that with God, they will not win. The wicked shall perish. We will deal with them. “They are evil, we will defeat them and we will eliminate them, a time is coming and we promise you that the children of those who are left behind, the widows or the widowers, will be catered for them. “Those our men and women in uniform, who sacrifice their efforts at saving lives, we will not forget any of you. “This is your government and this government will continue to pursue crime with determination, courage and perseverance. “We are the people who want peace and progress for the country. “Buhari does not want harm for anybody. Muhammadu Buhari does not wish you any harm or danger. “He wants protection, he wants peace. We will definitely work with him.”