From Emmanuel Adeyemi, Lokoja The Rector of Kogi State Polytechnic, Lokoja , Dr Usman Ogbu has warned newly admitted students into the school to run away from cultism, gun running, drug addiction or any other social vices while in the school or face expulsion. Dr Ogbu handed down the warning over the weekend while speaking at the 30th matriculation ceremony which took place at the Felele campus of the Polytechnic . Over 6,387 students were matriculated The rector admonished the matriculating students that the Polytechnic has zero tolerance for all forms of social vices such as cultism ,gun-running , examination malpractices ,alcoholism, unhealthy social gathering ,cyber crimes and others.The Rector however frowned at the way military personnels harass female students and beat up school staff each time they visit the school to pick female students He said that on several occasions the military personnel had visited the campus with aims of carrying girls ,but always causing a lot of troubles for the Polytechnic community, stressing that the supposed security personnel were turning themselves to security threat in most cases. Usman noted that at one particular night, an unidentified military man came to Polytechnic and attacked the security guards at work because he asked to be searched and descended on the guard . He pointed out that another one came to the campus to beat up a female student for no reasons, noting that the harassment at the Polytechnic was becoming unbearable. He therefore pleaded with the Commander of Command of Army Records Lokoja to warn those coming to the Polytechnic community to always obey the laws and other rules and regulations of entering and going out of the campus to avoid catastrophy that may ensue. He, however, appreciated the synergy between the State government and all security agencies in Kogi State, saying the management of the institution will continue to collaborate with the security agents in the state to ensure an enduring peace and security in Kogi State. He pointed out that the Polytechnic is a student-centered, stressing that the part mission was to build an environment that is conducive to group and independent learning experiences. “Our new slogan and approach geared towards building a credible and sustainable system is 3Rs which is Repair, Restore and Reform . Our hope and desire is to train students that will represent the pride and good image of the institution ,and I have no doubt that this current set will play a significant role”, the Rector said.