Nigerian philanthropist and industrialist Prince Arthur Eze, has described the current naira redesign and cashless policy by the Central Bank and the Federal Government as an outstanding economic decision which would bring effective financial prosperity to Nigerians.  According to Prince Arthur Eze, the Federal Government and the Central Bank should be commended for the decision which he said would give greater value to our currency and financial investments.  Speaking while preaching a sermon at a church service in Abuja, thepopular philanthropist who has given succour to many Nigerians through his various charitable works and donations urged the people to exercise a little patience as the genuine results of the policies of the CBN and Federal Government would soon come to fruition. He said that Nigerians should be happy that the billions stolen by some corrupt individuals in the country aimed at starving the poor in have been recovered and some rendered useless by the redesigned currency policy.  He wondered why some Nigerians would pack billions of stolen money in their private residences awaiting to use it in rigging elections. Prince Arthur Eze said with the cashless policy in place, disgruntled politicians can no longer use money to truncate the electoral process in the country. He remarked that “with the policy, unbroken peace and tranquility has returned to our electoral process and true democratic values will now be entrenched in our nascent democratic journey”.  The outspoken oil merchant emphasized that corrupt Nigerians hiding money in their houses have been forced to give it out to charity to avoid the expiration of such money in their hands before the deadline. He said that the hardship being experienced by Nigerians as a result of the policy were only temporal as the dividends would soon outweigh the present hardship.  He warned the rich in the society to devote significant part of their riches to charity and philanthropy as a way of pleasing God who in his infinite mercy gave them the wealth.  Prince Eze called on Nigerians to be their brothers keeper and live in peace and harmony so that economic activities could thrive, emphasizing that such can only thrive in a peaceful environment.  He finally called on Nigerian politicians to devote more time and considerations to the survival of the nation as a corporate entity, rather than pursuing primordial interests that do not further unity and cohesion.