The Federal Government has been advised to put adequate security measures in place in order to ensure that insecurity doesn’t pose a threat to the forthcoming general elections.  Giving the advice in an interview with TUNDE THOMAS, a former Presidential aspirant, Alhaji Tanko Yinusa noted that insecurity should not be allowed to threaten the polls. Yinusa, who is currently the chief spokesperson of the Peter Obi Presidential Campaign Council, said the elections should go ahead as scheduled starting from February 25. He warned that any attempt to postpone or shift the polls as a result of insecurity may spell doom for the nation’s democracy. He also spoke on other national issues. How will you react to the present state of insecurity in the country which has become a serious national concern? It is a sad development. It is very unfortunate and alarming that killings and abductions of innocent citizens have become the order of the day. It is appalling that Nigeria is gradually being turned into a killing field where people’s lives are no longer secured. It is sad that today Nigerians are passing through a lot of hardship. Hunger and poverty are ravaging the land, and millions of Nigerians are becoming despondent. They are also angry that the government that is supposed to provide them succour is not living up to expectations. Nigeria is not at war with any nation but it seems we are in a state of war. It is very unfortunate that the Federal Government has not lived up to expectations. This is not what Nigerians were expecting when they voted for the APC in 2015. Security of lives and property should be the primary focus of any government. But sadly, bandits and kidnappers have taken over the nation’s landscape, unleashing terror on Nigerians. Killings, kidnappings, and abductions of Nigerians have now become a daily affair. This is unacceptable. It is unacceptable that terrorists should be making life difficult for Nigerians while the government appears to be overwhelmed. Nigeria seems to be lacking purposeful leadership at the moment because if there is purposeful leadership, the situation should not have been degenerating almost into a daily affair. We should have been seeing concrete action being taken to alleviate the pains and suffering of Nigerians. The Federal Government needs to demonstrate more political will to tackle insecurity, and other socioeconomic problems facing the nation. Look at the pains Nigerians are undergoing as a result of the redesign of naira notes. Look at the lingering fuel crisis. The suffering is just too much. President Buhari needs to take more decisive actions in order to arrest the drift toward anarchy. What’s your assessment of how the situation is being handled by the Federal Government? The Federal government has not demonstrated enough commitment to tackling the insecurity scourge. The Federal Government should step up its current efforts in the fight against terrorism. They should beef up security around the country, and not only that, they should equip security agencies with sophisticated weapons that will help subdue these terrorists. They should also look into how they can collaborate more with the state governments because the state governments have been complaining that they are not in charge of security in their domains. Even Kaduna state governor Mallam Nasir el –Rufai recently reaffirmed that they are not in charge of security in their states, even though they are supposed to be the Chief Security Officers in their states. The Federal Government should therefore find a way to collaborate more with the states in devising strategies that will help in the battle against terrorism. Apart from collaborating with the state governments, what else can the Federal Government do for us to have a lasting solution to the security challenge? There is no way the Federal government can do it alone. There has to be synergy between the Federal Government, states and the relevant security agencies before tangible results can be achieved. The Federal Government and security agencies should also be more proactive. They should not wait for terrorists to strike before responding. The security agencies’ intelligence network should be able to detect and neutralise these terrorists before they strike. Then once the government makes a pronouncement that they are going to take certain actions against these terrorists, they should back it up with action immediately. They should take actions that will give Nigerians hope that the government is really working to tackle the problem. If they are able to do this, it will send a strong signal to these criminals. With the way the insurgency has been lingering, there is the possibility of an internal and external conspiracy against the state. Some political elements who are disgruntled may also be involved. Thorough investigations should be carried out to ascertain the elements behind the insecurity scourge. The Federal Government should take more decisive actions to tackle the problem. They have the resources to confront these terrorists. State Police or what some people refer to as community [olicing can also come to the rescue. Amotekun, Ebubeagu, and other security outfits being set up by the states are good but they must pay attention to their level of preparedness. How well-equipped are they to face the security challenge? Fighting terrorists is not a tea party, so these states’ security outfits should be well-funded and well-equipped. They should also be supervised, and well-monitored to prevent abuse. They should work together with other federal security agencies in order to achieve maximum results. But if they are not well equipped and well funded, it is going to be another waste of efforts and resources as they won’t be able to perform at the optimal level.  For state police to have meaning or for them to be relevant, they must be well equipped, and they must be recognised by the relevant laws. However, the most important aspect of this security issue is the welfare of the people. How well are people being taken care of? Are they economically empowered? Are poverty alleviation programmes being put in place by the government to make life easier for the citizens? When there is hunger, there will be discontentment, and this is why people say that a hungry man is an angry man. A hungry man can easily become a willing tool in the hands of terrorists. To that extent, the government through its own actions or inactions can play into the hands of these criminals, especially when they are not taking decisions that will make life easy for citizens. It is when people are empowered, and when the government implements people-oriented programmes that the temptation to go into crime can be resisted by some people. An idle hand or a hungry man will easily be a willing tool in the hands of those who are fuelling insecurity in the country. There are fears that the polls may be threatened if the present insecurity continues. Are you worried? This has been the same line of thought that has been resonating over the years. In 2015 and 2019, we had this security challenge that appeared to be threatening the general elections coming up within those periods. In 2019, the security situation was very bad to the extent that some parts of the country were being occupied by the insurgents. But as of today, I don’t think that there is any part of the country that is being occupied by terrorists, although they are roaming around the country unleashing terror on innocent citizens. I believe that if the right steps and actions are taken, the present insecurity should not be a threat to the polls. It is better that the elections hold as scheduled so that we can have a new Nigeria that we can call our own. We should not allow these terrorists to have their way because that will dampen the spirits of the electorate. The Federal Government should not succumb to the antics of these terrorists who may want to strike fear into the mind of voters. Security should be tightened across the country, and also around the facilities of INEC in different parts of the country. The elections should go ahead. These terrorists should not be allowed to have their way. It is dangerous for the elections not to hold. Any attempt to postpone or shift the general elections will pose a serious threat to the nation’s democracy. It will spell doom for the nation’s democracy. The elections should hold starting from February 25. Nigerians should be able to come out, and vote for candidates of their choice in a secure environment devoid of fear and terror.  It is the duty and the responsibility of the Federal Government to ensure that adequate security is provided. Terrorists should not be allowed to take Nigeria hostage as a nation. How will you assess the level of INEC’s readiness to conduct the polls? I believe INEC is not only well prepared for the polls but will also live up to expectations especially when the Commission has been empowered by the Electoral Act. All they need to do is to be vigilant and ensure that they remain an unbiased umpire. INEC should be very vigilant, especially in the distribution of election materials in some states where the road transport workers whose vehicles INEC will be using for the distribution of these materials are loyal to some top politicians and the state governments. They should ensure close monitoring of sensitive election materials to avoid them being tampered with. Security agents should provide adequate protection for INEC officials and election materials. We are confident that INEC will live up to expectations. What are your assessments of the campaigns so far? For us, it has been a good journey so far. Peter Obi is being received warmly across the country. The reception he has been receiving has been so fantastic, and you can’t compare his rallies with that of any other candidate. Obi is miles ahead. His campaigns are issue-based, and his messages on how he intends to transform the country are being well-received. This shows that Nigerians are tired of recycled old politicians who have nothing to offer. It is the same promises that they have been giving them over the years that they keep on repeating, and Nigerians are now wiser. They have been able to see through their deceit. But unfortunately,  the other two leading candidates have been busy launching personal attacks on each other instead of talking about their programmes. They have been busy washing their dirty linens in the public. One of them even promised to continue with the present order if he is elected, and what does that mean? It means that the present insecurity will continue, it means that the sufferings of Nigerians will continue. This shows that some candidates don’t have genuine love for this country but they are just interested in taking political power. What’s your stand on the mixed reactions being generated by the endorsement of Obi by Obasanjo and others? Obasanjo’s endorsement is a profound one, and it has become a source of envy among the other candidates. Obasanjo’s endorsement of Obi was however not based on sentiments. It was based on what Obasanjo called Obi’s track record, character, and vision. He said that Obi has the track record to lead this country. For the Southern and Middle Belt leaders, their endorsement of Obi has not come as a surprise. These eminent leaders based their endorsement on Obi’s ability to deliver.  It clearly showed that Nigerians want a genuine change. They want a new nation where the dreams of the founding fathers can be realized. Look also at the massive support being given to Obi by the youths who constitute more than 51 per cent of the population. It shows that those Nigerians who want this country to move forward, and who want Nigeria to truly work desired a genuine change. The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) have also been mobilizing support for Obi across the country. The present APC-led Federal Government has worsened the socioeconomic situation in the country. All indices of survival have collapsed under this administration. The pain and suffering in the land are too much, and this is why Nigerians are yearning for genuine change.  APC has brought decay into the nation’s political system.  Some are saying it would be unfair for another Northerner to succeed Buhari. Others have said the best candidate should emerge regardless of where he is from. What’s your take? I’m of the opinion that having a Southerner succeeding Buhari will be better. It will be in the interest of democracy because it will help create a sense of balance and equity between the North, and the South. But I also believe that the issue of Presidency should not be about ethnicity or religion but should be about competency and track record if we want the best for the country. We should not turn it into a Northern, and Southern affair if we want Nigeria to move forward as a nation.