A Chinese-trained music star, Mr Somadina Ezeonwuka has released his new song which he said is now trending in Chinese Coffee Shops and Nigeria, too. The young music artiste with Romadison Fortune as his stage name had his tertiary education in China and can speak Chinese language fluently. He said his music talent started manifesting in China some years back while still in the university there. But rather than go secular, Fortune said he preferred Christian music which he explained had enabled him to reel out worship songs to honour Jesus Christ. Fortune named some of the songs to his credit to include: “Jesus On Your Mind”; “I Like Jesus’ (Wo Ai Yesu in Chinese language) and “Fortune Exist”. “I have a big interest and spending much of my time planning on how to promote songs about Jesus as an upcoming Christian artiste. I’m literate in Chinese language and French. “I’m also working hard to feature with a South African artiste, Nokwazi and other Christian artistes in other parts of countries like Ghana, United States of America and even China where I lived for many years as a student and where my interest in music was nurtured. “My father, one of the Igbo leaders and the proprietor of Rojenny Games Village, Oba, in Idemili South Local Government Area of Anambra State who is popularly known as Ogilisi Igbo objected to my music career. But when he listens to my rendition, he always expressed his commendation. That really encouraged me to forge ahead in my chosen career. “I have made up my mind to serve Jesus with my music and I’m working on other songs to actualize my objective, ” he explained. Fortune said he started his music career when he joined the Zambian Acapella group in Hangzhou Zhejiang China. He said he joined in reading hymns praising God from where he developed the idea of writing his own songs. He told our Correspondent that he thereafter went to a top record label in Hangzhou downtown in China for the production of his songs titled “Fortune Even” and “I like Jesus” (Wo Ai Yesu). Fortune revealed that he was still working on an album titled “Innermost Raying”, adding that his favorite song in his newest releases is “Jesus on Your Mind” which he wrote himself. He gave an insight of his academic background. “I had my kindergarten and primary school education at Giant Step International School, Oba, before I went to Christ De King College (CKC), Onitsha for my secondary education. I later travelled to China to do my Bachelor’s degree in 2013 at Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou China. “i didn’t travel to China for the sake of music. i went there to study. My interest in music just started in my 300 level at the Zhejiang University of Technology. I acknowledged the goodness of Jesus in my life. And I had the opportunity to do music with the Chinese nationals, to use my music to worship Him. “I was in China for seven years. I can speak Chinese and I also studied French in Enugu at Alliance Francaise de Enugu. So, i speak French, too but can’t compare it with how I speak Chinese,” he said.