By Lukman Olabiyi Lagos State residents, especially the youths, have been urged to remain calm and peaceful in the face of the current challenges confronting the nation and avoid unhealthy protests that could disrupt the peace of the state. Chairman of the Lagos State chapter of the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN),  Biliamin Sulamon-Oba, made the appeal on behalf of 10 million youths in Lagos State at a press conference in Ikeja . The youths through Sulamon-Oba, who addressed the press conference in the company of the Secretary of the Lagos State chapter of NYCN, Comrade Agbaje Abdulhakeem; the State Public Relations Office, Comrade Abiodun Ajayi and other local branches coordinators and leaders of youth organisations, condemned the lingering fuel and Naira crises across the country and Lagos State in particular. The youth leaders also enjoined all political party leaders to caution their members against violence before, during, and after the forthcoming elections for the sustenance of peace and unity in the country. “The NYCN, Lagos Chapter, frowns against any protest capable of being hijacked by hoodlums and perpetrators of evils to avoid the repeat of the horrible experience of the EndSARs protest,”  Sulamon-Oba said.   While decrying the continued scarcity of both the new and old naira notes, the youth leaders appealed to the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr Godwin Emefiele, to disburse more Naira notes into circulation to alleviate the sufferings of Nigerians, especially Lagosians.  “The people should not be put in a state of discomfort and hardship like the masses are currently facing. Hence, government policies should be people-oriented and not only beneficial to the political class but to the detriment of the masses. “The Central Bank Governor, Mr Godwin Emefiele must, as a matter of urgency, ensure adequate disbursement of cash to all commercial banks and severely penalise any bank that fails to function appropriately. Understandably, some guidelines were already circulated by the CBN and must be followed diligently with more practical approaches,” Sulamon-Oba advised.