This piece is not about all politicians. It is not also about an alarming majority of them. This piece is really about a tiny minority of Nigerian politicians. To put it in context, it is about a majority of the minority of them. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Let’s dwell on that quasi-disclaimer some more, shall we? This piece does not in any way target the few of our politicians who are such sweet souls. This piece should, therefore, not discourage or dissuade them. We love and pray for them every day, believing that their evil colleagues shall soon come to the light. What are the modi operandi of these evil men and women and children, though? How do we do spot them out from the maddening crowd of politicians and pseudo-politicians? One, almost all of them want to hang on in political office for eternity. In the process, they can sacrifice anybody and anything. Two, all of them are against even the most fantastic idea that doesn’t have them at its very centre. I know you had to read that again. It is true: in politics, all the evil plotters go to any length to kill and bury even the best strategy, except it originated from them. Or, except, they are allowed to implement it. They are so ungodly, so daring, they go about bragging how they shall soon destablise God’s plan. It is the foolish audacity for me. Standing in the way of an approaching train to prove power only shames courage. Such courageous fools soon get crushed by natural forces. Remember the rich of old who now beg for bread? It wasn’t their village people who showed them pepper, as is erroneously unanimously believed. Rather, it was some of the pepper they showed others that now haunts their children and them. I am teaching you some fundamental stuff here; so, please, listen. The Egyptians you see no more are not dead. Our God not being a killer did not mean they would die. Those who tormented you are still alive, dead alive; but are unrecognisable. Fools today are the Egyptians you shall see no more tomorrow; please, warn them! Three, in case you still wonder about their other antics, here’s another. They are against any good idea that will benefit the people. The hospital will bless life, the school will accentuate living but some politicians would rather they pocketed the money meant to build and equip them. Sadist politicians are only happy when people suffer. Furthermore, they have very thin skin. They are allergic to everything good. They feel threatened that the artificial oxygen their political life depends on might be snuffed off if they don’t bark or scare away those behind any innovation that doesn’t bear their evil trademark. They hold back both their presence and support -materially and spiritually- hoping that things go kaput so they be called in to salvage the situation. If you know any Nigerian politician who has the means but who never supports your worthy cause, now The Boss has told you where such a one belongs. Politicians who are devilishly selfish are not of God. Forget them even if they are tongue-speaking Christians. I tell you, their tonguing is not of God! Four, it is with those same mouths they spew satanic blackmail and lies in high quarters against innocent souls. Five, these greedy, mostly timid, talebearing, permanently antagonistic scoundrels never walk or work alone. They can be four -or more or less. They are known as cabal or cartel, an egoistic sobriquet that they really cherish. Almost always, they have foot soldiers they use; foot soldiers who never know they are being used until quite late after which they start to bore us with stories that touch. Six, their other antics is that they spare no one: plus including their benefactor(s). They can move against the very person or system that sustains them. The twin baptismal names for this internecine stupidity is sabotage and betrayal.  They belong in your political party but are desperate for you -their own candidate or in some cases co-candidates- to lose. Can you think up a more sinister abomination? You and I are candidates in the same party but instead of focusing on my election, I am busy working for you to lose. Other than Satan incarnate, who can be this accursed? Clearly, they don’t operate sane or clean. They have another god, the small gee who soon expires like every man-made thing. The place of these adherents of small gee is very soon empty. Dear People of the one and only Big Gee, why then are you afraid or envious of the short-lived powerless power-drunk few? Seven, these evil doers are too conscious of money, self, advantage, position and plotting. They never remove their eyes from these areas. It is always about them, first, middle and last. It is either them or them. In spite of and despite their seeming talismanic antics, please know that just as nobody and nothing last forever, all political purveyors of evil antics within your space are suddenly coming to the terminal of no mercy. There’s somebody and something they are thinking whether to, that will bring them to their Waterloo -forever. This is the Word of the Lord. Shout hallelujah, Somebody; even if you can’t! God bless Nigeria!  Ward leader as PDP’s electoral talisman (3) … Continued from last Monday Pastor Umo Eno is one of the finest examples of not only how to be a Ward Leader but also of why PDP shall win big in Akwa Ibom in the forthcoming general election. He epitomises inclusiveness, patience and class. With all the darts flung at him from all directions, not once has he been heard or read cursing back as is the way of Politics Nigeriana. Now, that’s leadership: Ward Leader Umo Eno has everything to be governor of Akwa Ibom -and, he’s going to be! To be sure, he has all of 328 colleagues complete with 4,354 Unit Commanders rooting for him, spread across the nooks and crannies of the beautiful state. No other political party, no other governorship standard-bearer has structure so solid -or is there? You move to the senatorial political leaders of the state and you meet formidable (Ward) Leaders like Senator Effiong Bob (Akwa Ibom northeast), Senator Emmanuel Ibokessien (northwest) and down south, Chief Nduese Essien, former federal Minister and Legislator. As Patrons of AKWA IBOM STATE WARD LEADERS UNION, there’s no gainsaying the monumental role, support and impact of these experienced field politicians. Talking about patrons, who provide us priceless advantage, let me take to you to Esit Eket (Akwa Ibom south), Oruk Anam (Akwa Ibom northwest) and Itu (Akwa Ibom northeast). In that order, may I please request Elder Ben Udobia, political leader of Esit Eket local government area, Rt Hon. (Atuekong) Sir Udo Kierian Akpan, Leader of Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly and Rt Hon. Henry Archibong, a medic, representing Itu/Ibiono federal constituency in House of Representatives to rise and take a bow? These three distinguished gentlemen not only sacrifice money and time, they also are present from start to finish every time The UNION needs them. A case in point was during their LGA inauguration. Next, Akparawa Michael Afangide, OFR. I wonder if there’s any Ward Leader like this man or if there’d ever be. This Essien Udim LGA political cum Ward Leader is well over a hundred years old but he’s present everywhere The UNION shows up. Like former Minister of the Federal Republic, Chief Senas Ukpanah, OFR, an Ukanafun Ward Leader, Obong Afangide who’s fondly called the Iroko of Akwa Ibom politics is far stronger and far alerter than far younger Ward Leaders. I am happy he’s my namesake. I shall live longer and healthier, this life. Staying on in Essien Udim, I have encountered another Ward Leader who’s a winner through and through.  Atuekong (Barr.) Martins Umanah, former chairman of the Local Government, is a go-getter, a team player and above all the kind of confidant every President General needs.  Then, there’s probably one of the youngest Ward Leaders in the state. The Prince of Oruk Anam, Obong (Dr) Prince Ikim, the serial award-winning chair of Akwa Ibom State Environmental Protection and Waste Management Agency, is a Ward Leader like none other. In a very sweet, selfless way, he’s desperate for Oruk Anam, for the state, for Peoples Democratic Party, for Gov. Udom Emmanuel and of course, for Candidate Umo Eno to win. He stops at nothing to prove his indispensability as everyone could see when he manufactured a carnival out of a routine inauguration of The UNION at Oruk Anam. … concluded next Monday