From Okey Sampson, Umuahia Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The presidential candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), Yabagi Sani, has vowed to build the country economically if elected president on February 25. Sani said he would do this by encouraging the manufacturing sector through the granting of a special fund for that purpose. Sani who disclosed this in Umuahia, Abia State during the party’s South East presidential rally held in Umuahia at the weekend, said with that, Nigeria would join countries with the fastest growing economy. He said to achieve that, his administration would leverage the ingenuity of the people of Aba who he said are especially blessed people. “Aba is a town that God has chosen as a model for people to be energised to attain great feats in making things. We have seen what is happening in China, and Malaysia and we can make Aba a huge economic hub.” Sani also promised that if he becomes the president of Nigeria, his administration will bring made-in-Aba products to international recognition. He promised the Igbo would be given her rightful place in the country’s scheme of things if he was elected president of Nigeria in the February 25 poll. “I must tell you that the people of South East have been pushed to the wall. Were you people given equal opportunity in this country, you will work for the good of the country. “Igbo people are always a model. They are the most renowned all the world for their aggressive hard work. The Igbo nation is a nation of promise. Apart from Igboland and perhaps, Lagos, the rest of the country, it seems, is sleeping.” The ADP Presidential candidate said his administration will need Ndi Igbo in his administration to restore the country’s greatness. Worried by the present government’s nonchalant in obeying court orders, Sani said his government shall enthrone the rule of law in Nigeria. “Everyone in Nigeria will be treated according to the provisions of the law. The president will not interfere with the judiciary as is currently the norm. “We are going to grow by the rule of law. Nobody wants to live in the bush; nobody wants to be hungry and angry.” He said the problem with Nigeria today was that it gave power to somebody who has no intellect, adding that he was well-educated and energetic to tackle the challenges of the country. The governorship candidate of the party in Abia, Jonas Chibuikem has assurance ADP was going to win the presidential election. Chibuikem described the party’s presidential candidate as a man of integrity, who he said if elected, will give Nigeria the best. The governorship candidate who is from Abia North, promised to restore the state to its lost glory if elected governor, adding that he was optimistic about winning the election since it is the turn of the zone to produce the next governor of the state.