The organisers of Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards, MultiChoice Nigeria and Africa Magic, are ready to roll out the red carpets for another year of recognising the best of Nollywood talent.  To this end, all African filmmakers have been called upon to submit their movies publicly exhibited or broadcast between December 1, 2021 and January 31, 2023 for this year’s edition of the awards.  The entry portal opened on February 20, 2023 and will close on March 10, 2023. According to the organisers, all films (aired in cinemas or otherwise), made-for-television movies or television series are eligible as long as they fall within the specified timeline. Speaking, Head of Content and West Africa Channels, MultiChoice, Busola Tejumola, said: “The AMVCAs returned last year after a one-year break with much pomp and pageantry. We had an eight-day celebration filled with several activities affecting the different facets of our industry. Since then, we’ve seen more brilliant work we look forward to celebrating at the ninth edition of the awards. This year’s AMVCAs will once again demonstrate our intentionality in spotlighting the tremendous talent we have in the African film and TV industry.” The 9th edition, slated for later in the year, will see the return of the social media category, which the fast-rising comedian, Sabinus, took home last year. The award tagged: ‘Best Online Social Content Creator, recognises the growing acceptance of content creators across Africa. There are also categories like the trailblazer and lifetime awards that are often emotional wins.  Fast-rising actors in the period under review will be looking forward to winning the trailblazer award, which will mark a major milestone in their career. On the other hand, the veterans and Nollywood fans will have their fingers crossed on the African movie legend the show will be celebrating this year.  The fashion-forward ‘Best-dressed’ male and female categories will also return, and attendees will be looking to beat Osas Ighodaro and Denola Grey’s gorgeous looks from last year.  To enter the awards, all filmmakers must prepare a 5-minute-long show reel. The video must be less than 300MB and submitted on the Africa Magic website. The website will allocate a unique reference number to each completed online submission.