From Gyang Bere, Jos The Director General of Industrial Training Fund (ITF), Sir Joseph Ari said the Fund has surpassed its target in the implementation of special skills intervention programme, disclosing that over 50,000 Nigerians have been trained across the country for economic self reliance to fight the scourge of poverty. He noted that the Fund also recorded a huge success in its effort to institutionalise the National Apprenticeship and Traineeship system that led to the launching of NATS framework two weeks ago. Ari made the disclosure in Jos during the 2022 end-of-the-year performance review meeting tagged, “National Apprenticeship and Traineeship System (NATS): A pathway to Job and wealth creation, held at the ITF headquarters, Jos. Please enable JavaScript Said Ari “In the area of revenue generation we equally surpassed our targets in the areas of company registration, training contribution, course fees and other incomes. What I consider as our most telling achievement of year 2022, is the successes we recorded in our efforts to institutionalize the National Apprenticeship and Traineeship System leading to the launch of the NATS framework two weeks ago.” He explained that the Fund made considerable efforts towards ensuring that the National apprenticeship and traineeship system was held in Nigeria, adding that the history of apprenticeship in Nigeria cannot be told without recognizing the pioneering role of ITF through its SIWES programme. Ari added, “It is also on record that aside from the SIWES, the Fund mounted several other apprenticeship programmes in various sectors of the National economy, most notable of which was the In-Plant Training Programme, where the Fund undertook industry related studies in collaboration with the clients to identify and rectify productivity related challenges.” The DG explained further that “With soaring unemployment and poverty, which according to the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics (NBS) is over 33 percent and 63 percent respectively, the Fund refocused its policy direction on NATs in order to escalate skills acquisition for prosperity, job and wealth creation”. He noted that a functional National Apprenticeship and Traineeship System will ensure a structured approach to skills acquisition and certification, leading to an increase in the number of MSMEs and expansion of the existing ones. The Acting Head of Corporate Planning Commission (CPC), Mrs. Olufunke Olorunleke who welcomed members of staff to the review meeting, described the event as crucial to enable the Fund build on its successes for the years ahead.