By Billy Graham Abel Yola  The Director General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) YD Ahmed, has sounded a warning to the members of the Batch A, Stream One corp members to stay away from meddling in local politics while performing their national service. Ahmed said, corp members in the p have maintained a commendable level of excellence while serving as adhoc staff during elections and corp members must continue in that tradition of respecting and keeping the high standards that their predecessors maintained. Gen. YD Ahmed made the remarks at the closing ceremony of the Batch A Stream One in Yola, Adamawa state. Gen. Ahmed said, “My dear compatriots, as you begin the next phase of the Service, I urge you to sustain the spirit of patriotism, hard work and resilience, which you imbibed during the Orientation Course.  “It is my ardent hope that you will strive to meet the expectations of Nigerians by contributing towards the progress and development of our dear country.  “I enjoin you to perform your duties with diligence and be guided by the provisions of the NYSC Act and Bye-Laws as well as workplace rules and regulations.” Ahmed further said “In keeping with the objectives of the Scheme, you are expected to integrate into your host communities while also appreciating and respecting their cultures.  “You must desist from meddling in their local politics. I enjoin you to undertake personal and group Community Development Service Projects that will help to uplift the living standard of the host communities. “As you are already aware, the 2023 General Elections are around the corner. As was the case with the previous elections conducted from 2008, Corps members will form the majority of ad hoc personnel that will be enlisted for the conduct of the exercise.  “It will interest you to know that the performance of your predecessors contributed to the credibility of the previous elections, and earned NYSC accolades from both local and foreign observers. Therefore, I enjoin you to take a cue from them by performing the election duties with high sense of responsibility. You are to ensure adherence to the guidelines contained in the Electoral Act and, especially, remain neutral throughout the exercise. As you get set to partake in this important national assignment, I would like to assure you that we have secured the commitment of the Independent National Electoral Commission and security agencies regarding your welfare and safety before, during and after the elections.” The NYSC boss challenges the corp members saying, “I have received impressive reports on your participation in the entrepreneurial trainings conducted in Camp under the NYSC Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme.  “I encourage you to build on the skills acquired by availing yourselves of opportunities for post-camp training as this will go a long way in empowering you for self-reliance.  “On our part, we will continue to liaise with financial institutions and other stakeholders with a view to providing start-up loans to enable you actualize your business dreams. I assure you that Management will continue to explore avenues for optimizing the impact of the programme.” He urged the corp members to be, “Good ambassadors of the NYSC as well as your families and institutions of graduation. “Therefore, you must be wary of acts that can portray the Scheme in bad light, especially drug abuse and trafficking, cybercrime, advanced-fee-fraud and spreading of fake news, amongst others. Also remember that your membership of the Service Corps does not confer on you immunity from the legal consequences of any wrongdoing. You are, therefore, enjoined to continue to be law-abiding while also serving as role models for the younger ones.” He used the opportunity to appeal to Corps Employers to always accept Corps Members posted to them, and make the necessary provisions for their welfare and to mentor them properly to enable them develop their potentials.