Sylvanus Viashima, Jalingo The Coalition of Support Groups of the All Progressives Congress APC in Taraba state have distanced themselves from the just conducted gubernatorial primary election that produced Senator Emmanuel Bwacha as the candidate of the party in the state. Mr. Ibrahim Sani, Leader of the coalition who made the declaration on Monday at a press briefing in Jalingo alleged that the purported gubernatorial primary election just conducted was in violation of the Supreme Court judgement invalidating the ruling of the Federal High Court which earlier directed the party to conduct a fresh primary within 14 days. He decried the deployment of military to conduct the primaries. “We are here to dissociate ourselves from the kangaroo congress said to have been conducted to elect the gubernatorial candidate for the party in spite of the boycott by the five aggrieved gubernatorial aspirants of the party namely: Sen. Yusuf A. Yusuf, Hon. Engr. Sale Mamman, Chief David Sabo Kente, Mr. Irimiya Kifasi and Sen. Anthony Manzo, who had earlier addressed a press conference in Abuja distancing themselves from any primary election as one of them Sen. Yusuf A. Yusuf stillhas a pending undecided case at the Supreme Court in respect of the same matter. “The purported primary election was supervised by a team of military officers who masquerade as democrats to frighten law abiding party faithfuls. We are therefore passionately appealing to the National Chairman of our Great Party (APC) Sen. Dr. Abdullahi Adamu, the APC National Working Committee and the presidential candidate of the Party Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his running mate Sen. Kashim Shettima to quickly wade into the matter with a view to righting the wrongs and correct the seeming confusion before things go out of hands. “Accordingly, the group hereby throws it full weight at the recent change of baton which show the removal of the former state Chairman of the Party Barr. IbrahimTukur El-Sudi. In fact this was one of our earlier prayers when we kicked against the seeming injustice and illegality foisted on us in the last state APC congresses to elect officials of the party which were not held. “While we assured of our unflinching support and loyalty to the leadership of the party at all times to deepen democracy and to ensure a resounding victory of the party in the forthcoming general elections, we are accordingly advising the presidential candidate of our great party Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his running mate, Kashim Shettima to suspend their impending visit to Taraba State until the seeming confusion and uncertainty are corrected in other to have a successful visit to the State. “Finally we call on all APC supporters in the State to remain calm and be law abiding as we vow to ensure justice and fair play in the conduct of the party affairs, more so as the chances of the party in the coming general election remain bright” Sani concluded.