From Priscilla Ediare, Ado-Ekiti The Court of Appeal sitting in Ado Ekiti capital of Ekiti State has upheld the judgement of the lower court validating the victory of the State Governor, Mr Biodun Oyebanji at the June 18, 2022 Governorship election in the state. The Social Democratic Party(SDP) candidate, Chief Segun Oni, had approached the Appeal Court having dissatisfied with the judgement of the lower court. According to Justice Hamma Barka,who delivered the judgement virtually on Tuesday, the appellant, Oni, failed to prove his case beyond reasonable doubt. He held that the respondents Biodun Oyebanji and Monisade Afuye were duly elected as the governor and deputy governor of the state. The judge added that Governor Oyebanji was lawfully nominated as the candidate of the All Progressives Congress and emerged the winner of the election conducted under a peaceful atmosphere. He said that the Mai Mala Buni caretaker committee that conducted the primaries that produced Oyebanji was in line with the constitution of the party and it should be an internal issue not to be contested by other party. Justice Barka noted that the petition challenging the certificate of the Deputy governorship candidate of the APC Monisade Afuye was a plan by the appellant to circumvent the rules of law as the respondents presented a valid certificate to the electoral body. He explained that the appellant failed to prove the forgery of certificate allegation against the deputy governor to convincing level as it fails to present a clear evidence to support the allegation. Following the judgement, the candidate of the SDP vowed to proceed to the Supreme Court to seek redress in the judgement of the election petitions tribunal and the appeal court that affirmed governor Oyebanji as the duly elected governor of Ekiti State. Spokesperson of Segun Oni Campaign Organisation, Jackson Adebayo, told newsmen that the SDP candidate would fight for his right to the last stage of the judiciary. He noted that the appellate court failed to look into the issues presented by the petitioners.