By Chukwuma Umeorah As part of efforts aimed at developing the real estate sector and addressing housing deficit in the country, Wealth Island Properties (WIP), a real estate firm has allocated Greenpoint Community properties to its subscribers. The Chief Executive of WIP, Tade Cash described the land allocation exercise in Epe, Lagos as a brave move by allotees even as he encouraged more people to invest in land and properties. According to him, “Those who, despite uncertainty, still have time to invest in the future are very brave. And those are the people we have here taking advantage of the investment offer of one of our properties.” More than 50 subscribers were allotted their space at the twenty acres project that came with a registered Deed of Assignment and Survey from the government of Lagos State. He encouraged the them to align with the government in following requisite processes that have been stipulated, to have their building project sorted from start to finish including abiding by accredited professionals at every stage of the development. “WIP Africa has a very cordial relationship with the government, and our goal is to open up this channel for our clients to take advantage of, such that they would not fall short of the law whenever they chose to start their development.” Cash said that the group has been in the vanguard of supporting the state government’s infrastructural development agenda with numerous engineering approaches to land reclaims that have won his team accolades. “On one of our projects in Isolo, we, through government support, applied some engineering innovation in solving a perennial water challenge that helped reclaim some acres of land, and also saved nearby communities from the potential hazard of flooding. “Lagos’ land is under pressure, and every effort to reclaim marginal land will greatly help the government’s housing and infrastructural projects,” He said. He announced that the firm has several land projects and apartments development, including an ongoing project in Magodo with a Certificate of Occupancy where their engineering ingenuity had been deployed to reclaim over 30 acres of Land.