Endorses Ugwuanyi for Senate, Mbah for Governor Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Geoffrey Anyanwu, Enugu Ahead of Saturday’s presidential election, the Anambra Women General Assembly (AWGA) has called on all the candidates in the 2023 presidential race to step down for Labour Party (LP) candidate Peter Obi. Arising from their first quarterly meeting of the year in Enugu, where they endorsed Obi as their Presidential candidate in the presidential election, the women said their request for other candidates to step down for the LP candidate was made in the “spirit of fairness, equity, justice and inclusiveness.” AWGA which was birthed last year in Enugu, with the aim and focus on the promotion of peace and cordial co-existence among all Nigerians irrespective of tribe, ethnicity, religion or state of origin and good governance at all levels, also endorsed Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for Senate, Enugu North Senatorial District and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Peter Mbah for governor, Enugu state. Disclosing these while briefing newsmen during the meeting, the Founder and President of AWGA, Mrs Amaka Nweke, urged Nigerians especially Anambra women in all the 36 states of Nigeria and FCT Abuja, to go out on Saturday and on March 11 and vote according to their conscience. She said, “Support and vote for credible candidates across the nation irrespective of party lines if you want to see a new Nigeria of our dreams. All we need is to get the best hands and not where the person comes from. Our nation deserves the best hands to handle its affairs and all we hope to get is the very best, no matter where anyone comes from.” Earlier, in a motion for the endorsement of Obi, the Vice President, Chief (Mrs) Lilian Chinweze, “We are not backing Mr Peter Gregory Obi because he is Igbo but because apart from being the most credible and competent among the contestants, his pedigree and track record has proven that he would not steal our commonwealth but will rather harvest our God-given natural and human resources for the good of the generality of Nigerians. “We call on every Nigerian to put aside partisanship come the election of president this Saturday and vote for competence, capability, integrity, accountability and the general good of every Nigerian. Peter Obi is the man to take us from consumption to production. Nigeria will be great again under Peter Obi and Datti Ahmed’s presidency.” Also moving the motion for the endorsement of Ugwuanyi and Mbah, the Enugu State Coordinator of AWGA, Mrs Patience Ikeobi, said among other things that all their votes would go to Ugwuanyi for the Enugu North Senatorial District seat. She said, “The Executive Governor of Enugu state is our father. He has stood behind us from the inception and given us a voice in the state, being where AWGA was conceptualized and birthed. Moreover, His Excellency is an all-inclusive leader and has consistently operated an open-door policy. He is a leader with a very large and benevolent heart. His peaceful disposition restored peace and progress in Enugu State. he has also been gender friendly and has appointed many women and non-indigenes into the state service.” On Mbah, she said: “I the same vein, we also want to assure Barr. Peter Mbah that AWGA’s votes are 100 per cent for him. Peter Mbah from our assessment is competent, credible, strong-willed and well-disposed to run an all-inclusive government also. Moreover, we want to align with the zoning arrangement of the people of Enugu state that has encouraged peace, equity and fairness.” AWGA said it also has faith in Mbah to continue the good work begun by Ugwuanyi. Also at the meeting, Dr Ifeoma Asimadu, a Consultant ophthalmologist, ESUT Teaching Hospital, Parklane, Enugu and Senior Lecturer, ESUT College of Medicine, took the women on health seminar and discussed “the woman and her well-being, touching three areas: Menopause, screening for female cancers and managing stress.”