From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) has announced the immediate redeployment of no fewer than 11 Assistant Controller General of Immigration (ACGS) and 30 State Controllers ahead of this weekend’s presidential and National Assembly election. The Service disclosed that those majorky affected by the redeployment are from the Controllers of States that bordered Nigeria with neighboring countries. Comptroller General of Immigration,  Isah Jere Idris, who has approved the redeployment in a statement signed and issued by NIS Public Relations officer, Tony Akuneme, (Comptroller of Immigration) will take immidiate effect. According to him, the states include; Yobe, Adamawa,  Sokoto, Katsina, Zamfara, Oyo, Lagos (Seme Border) and Cross River states. “Other states getting new Comptrollers include Gombe, Kaduna, Kano, Plateau, Bauchi, FCT, Nassarawa, Edo, Bayelsa, Rivers (Marine Command), Anambra and Enugu, among others.  “The Controller General of Immigration, has approved the immediate reposting of 41 senior officers ahead of the presidential and National Assembly elections taking place next week.  “In a release signed by the NIS Public Relations officer, Tony Akuneme,  (Comptroller of Immigration), the redeployment affected eleven Assistant Comptrollers General incharge of the various zones as well as 30 Comptrollers posted to new states. “According to the posting order, signed on behalf of the Comptroller General by the Deputy Comptroller General incharge of Human Resources, Usman Babangida, the states affected were mainly those that bordered Nigeria with neighboring countries, such as Yobe, Adamawa, Sokoto,    Katsina, Zamfara, Oyo, Lagos (Seme Border) and Cross River states. “Other states who are getting new Comptrollers include Gombe, Kaduna, Kano, Plateau, Bauchi, FCT, Nassarawa,  Edo, Bayelsa, Rivers (Marine Command), Anambra and Enugu, among others.  “The NIS spokesman further stated that all the  deployments are with immediate effect and that the CGIS placed a very high premium on the critical role  of his personnel in the success of the forthcoming general elections,” the statement noted.