From John Adams, Minna Niger State youths under the auspices of Arewa Decides 2023, and some women groups in the state have organized a sensitization conference on votes canvassing and votes protection for the People Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential candidate Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and his running mate, Ifeanyi Okowa for forthcoming elections, insisting that Atiku/Okowa Presidency in 2023 remains sacrosanct The Niger state Coordinator of the Arewa Decides group, Comrade Isah Abubakar Vatsa while addressing Newsmen shortly after declaring the conference opened in Minna said the Sensitization and Awareness Conference was aimed at educating the youths and the various women support groups in the state on Votes Canvassing and votes protection the Presidential candidate and his running mate. He disclosed that Arewa Decides 2023 has mandated all its members across the entire northern states to embark on what he called “aggressive sensitization” for votes canvassing and votes protection for the PDP candidate. He described Atiku as a nationalist with , capability, competence, strong, mentally and physically fit to lead the country out her present predicament as a nation. He argued that Nigeria at the moment needs a very articulated leader that can move the country to the next level. Comrade Abubakar Vatsa expressed optimism. that the People’s Democratic Party and it’s candidates will emerged victorious in the February 26 Presidential poll. According to him, “we will not only canvass for votes for our candidates at all levels, we will protect our votes during the elections. That is why we organized the conference”. Also speaking, a member of the Arewa Decides 2023, Sadiq Abubakar Kpotu in an interview said that the People’s Democratic Party is the party to beat in the forthcoming elections because it is obvious that Nigerians are tired of the many lies and failed promises of the ruling APC. He maintained that the youths should take their destiny in their hands by voting the PDP at all levels to save the country from maladministration, misrule, hardship and nepotism so as to better their lives. Also, the PDP Woman Support Squad, Hajiya Saratu expressed satisfaction with the large turn out of women and youths is a clear indication that the party will surely win at all levels during the forthcoming general elections.