By Sunday Ani Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Humanitarian activist Kennedy Iyere has alleged that Ebonyi State Governor Dave Umahi has plans to rig the 2023 general elections using insecurity as a tool, even as he urged the people of the state to blame him for the current insecurity in the state. He made the allegation on Monday during a press conference organised by a coalition of civil society organisations from the five South East states. The conference, with the theme “The worrisome state of insecurity in Ebonyi and its dangerous consequences before, during and after the 2023 general elections,” had leaders of several civil organisations in attendance. Iyere called on the people of Ebonyi State not to allow the Governor to deceive them with sweet words because according to him, Gov Umahi was using negative strategies to play smart. He also charged the civil society organisations to unite to be able to fight the insecurity and curb the rising activities of political gangs in the state. He said: “Umahi should stop lying to himself. Most of us are smarter than him. He is the one responsible for the worrisome insecurity rocking Ebonyi State. His love for political power is the reason he made himself a dictator and a supreme leader, whose delight is to intimidate and oppress his own people. His desperate efforts to sustain his dictatorial leadership pushed him into adopting hostility and intimidation as tools. “Consequently, he formed various groups which he finances and uses solely to intimidate and oppress anyone who opposes him. He created Ebube Agu to coordinate the activities of other criminal groups working for him. “Today, these groups have overwhelmed the state with security tensions, which is exactly what he has always wanted to achieve for himself as a supreme ruler. The Governor believes that the only way he can rig the 2023 election in favour of his candidacy is to intimidate the Ebonyi people. He positioned Ebube Agu to help him achieve that for himself. This is why he is doing everything within his power to keep Ebube Agu in existence.” Consequently, Iyere called on President Muhammadu Buhari, the international community, the people of Ebonyi state as well as all Nigerians to ensure that the Governor’s reign of political intimidation and oppression is brought to an end. He accused the Governor of breeding terrorists in Ebonyi State, through various political and militia groups he formed which are also financed and sustained with public funds, like the Ebube Agu militia.