From Okwe Obi, Abuja A Chieftain of Labour Party (LP), Alex Obiechina, has claimed that the presidential election was a already a done deal for the standard bearer of the party, Peter Obi. Obiechina, who is also the spokesperson for North, MiddleBelt and South Support Groups for Obi (NMBSSG4O), spoke to journalists yesterday in Abuja. He expressed dismay that some Southeast stalwarts of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) were giving the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, false hope of getting enough votes from the zone. “Any politician from the Southeast, who is telling you that they are giving Atiku any vote, they are just deceiving Atiku. “This is not 2019. Besides, Peter Obi’s personal charisma, his morality, past record and articulation of the Nigeria’s problems and need to move from consumption to production, have galvanized Nigerians from all parts,” he said According to him, those supporting Atiku are old time politicians that are after their personal interest in appointive positions or contracts, stressing that those campaign for Peter Obi and LP include youth and women who believe that Nigeria needs urgent change. Obiechina dismissed claims that Obi would not make it to the second or third position after the elections, saying that the difference between the LP presidential candidate in terms of integrity and sound moral philosophy in governance and management of public resources. While maintaining that Obi’s shining examples in public office has endeared him to Nigerians, the LP chieftain said the old politics is giving way to public spirited persons to come into elective office. He stated: “These are things that would make Obi emerge President from the first ballot on February 25. “From my analysis and from the reports we are getting, the political trends and the major determinants of who will emerge as the winner of the coming election, all favour Peter Obi. “Majority of those who vote are youths and the women, there are almost 80 per cent of the population at any election. “The other 20 per cent is left for the men, who hardly come to vote. The fact that youths are championing Peter Obi’s campaign, shows in their determination and belief that there is urgent need for change. “Peter Obi’s election represents the push for a generational change, which is within the aspiration of the youths. Peter Obi meets the aspirations, the hopes and wishes of most Nigerians.” He commended President Muhammadu Buhari for his determination to leave a legacy of credible elections, saying that the President’s assurances has helped to engineer public confidence in the forthcoming polls. The former governorship candidate of PDP in Enugu State, said as somebody who had suffered grave injustice during elections, he was elated that President Buhari has effectively mobilised machineries to stem the issue of vote buying. He, therefore, urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), to work hard to meet the expectations of the people, pointing out that findings from the last Osun State governorship poll should avail the commission the opportunity to fine-tune its strategies and systems.