By Christopher Oji  The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has launched a Nigerian Internal Security and Public Safety Alert System (N-Alerts) to aid report of Sexual and Gender Based Violence (SGBV) before, during and after the General  Elections. The alert system was launched yesterday, by the Minister of Women Affairs, Mrs Pauline Tallen  at the NSCDC National Headquarters in Abuja. NSCDC Commandant General, Ahmed Abubakar , said, that the new technology would also be used in reporting criminal acts that would likely enact during the elections. During the event, which marked the 3rd Annual Forum of Women, Peace and Security Sector Reference Group,  themed, “the Role of Female Security Personnel in 2023 General Elections,Audi, said that the level of proactive preparedness by security agencies in the country gave  the confidence of adequate security as citizens would  freely vote for their preferred candidates. He said that there has also been a high level of collaboration between sister agencies, which gives hope for a free, fair and transparent election. “We, the security agencies are on the same page, well prepared,and ready to frustrate the efforts of those planning to truncate the electoral process. “The Police Force is  the lead agency in election security, and we are going to be working together alongside other sister agencies, and I assure you, it will translate to positive outcomes,” he said.  The CG reiterated his commitment to introduce positive changes into the Corps through programmes,and policies that would  boost the capacity of female security personnel to compete favourably with their male counterparts. The Corps helmsman promised the Minister of his continuous effort to create platforms for female gender to showcase  talents. The Minister, Tallen, called on  security agencies to protect,and defend the votes of Nigerians in the spirit of one man, one vote, in order to give room for credible elections across board.   She, said that unveiling the School SGBV APP would  further protect the female students from sexual abuse, cultists and other forms of attacks in their academic settings.  She, further said that there was need for female security personnel to be fully mobilised and deployed to utilizse their potentials in overseeing the forthcoming general elections towards actualising a safe, free and fair elections.   “The gender mainstreaming has achieved some milestones in various Government Ministries, Department and Agencies and has also contributed to present day Reforms witnessed in the Security Sector. “It has strengthened Women’s voices and structures with frequent gender concerns in public policy text and discussions,” she said.