From Uche Usim, Abuja  To deepen operational safey, the Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) has ordered retail stations to report fire incidents on their premises within 24 hours of such occurrence or face sanctions.  Defiant operators risk unpalatable punishment ranging ranging from fines to suspension of operation/revocation of license. The Director, Health, Safety Environment and Community (HSEC) department of the Authority, Nsikak Bassey, who handed down the directive during a meeting with the safety team of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPCL) Retails, added that reports of fire incidents must not be delayed as it must reach the Authority Chief Executive (ACE), Farouk Ahmed within 48 hours.  NMDPRA further warned management of stations to refrain from tampering with evidence after incidents by ensuring that unwanted persons do not contaminate the incident site. The agency added that fuel stations must develop and strictly implement Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for all operations such as discharging and dispensing.  “They must also provide adequate firefighting equipment for all facilities as well as enlist staff in MISTDO training”, the agency stated. Bassey also said operators of facilities must ensure integrity tests are conducted on Underground Storage Tanks (USTs) as enshrined in Environmental Guidelines and Standards for the Petroleum Industry in Nigeria (EGASPIN) 2018.  According to him, operators sometimes fail to ground (earthing) underground storage testing and vehicle tankers before discharging.  Regarding NNPCL Retail, Bassey said the company sometimes fails to carry out pre-requisite audits and knowledge of the integrity status of retail outlets upon taking over or acquisition. He frowned at the failure of NNPCL Retail to determine the quality of the soil;corrosive or non-corrosive soil before tank burial and failure to report observed leaks from the Underground Storage Tank as enshrined in the Authority’s guidelines. In his response, General Manager, Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Quality (HSSEQ) of NNPCL Retail, Dr. Oyet Gogomery, said the company treats safety issues with utmost care and adheres strictly to safety guidelines.