By Sunday Ani Please enable JavaScript Twenty nine registered and deregistered political parties in Lagos State, under the platform of the Coalition of Political Parties in Lagos State (COPPILS), on Thursday, endorsed the presidential bid of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the re-election bid of Babajide Sanwo-Olu as the Governor of Lagos State. Convener of the programme, Akinola Obadia said the group endorsed Tinubu because his track records of performance, particularly his initiatives as the Lagos State Governor, has proved that he is the best man to take Nigeria out of the woods when he becomes the president. “Some of Tinubu’s notable achievements include the establishment of LAWMA, LASTMA, LIRS, LASEPA, LAMATA and Neighbourhood watch among others. And lastly, his passionate love for promotion of democracy, good governance and human capital,” he said. The coalition also promised to give two million votes to both the presidential candidate and the governor on February 25 and March 11, respectively. The parties are AD, UPN, UPP, NPC, ACPN, CPN, BNPP, PPP, PPA, and NUP. Others are UP, LM, Mega Party, MMN, FJP, NCMP, GDPN, APA, AGAP, ID Party, RPN, Green Party, Hope Democrats, DA, C4C Party, NPM, and Independent Democrats. Obadia said: “We have all agreed to reach out to our teeming supporters who are non-APC members and let them know why Asiwaju is the best option, and why Sanwo-Olu should be given a second term to complete all the laudable projects in Lagos State.” He also drew attention to Tinubu’s scorecard as a pro-democracy crusader, who as a committed National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) chieftain, fought for the restoration of popular rule. Obadia noted that Tinubu sustained the Awoist legacies as the only surviving Alliance for Democracy (AD) in 2003, and constructed a bridge of understanding between the South and North in 2015. Justifying the coalition’s support for Sanwo-Olu, he said the governor was a hardworking administrator, who had faithfully implemented his THEMES agenda. He applauded the governor for his achievements, including the Blue Rail Line to ease commuters’ stress, and reduce work hours being wasted on the road, the completion of the biggest rice mill in Africa, which produces 32 metric tonnes per hour, and the Deep Blue Sea project among others. “Today in Lagos State, we, the opposition registered and deregistered political parties under the umbrella of the Coalition of Political Parties in Lagos State (COPPILS) endorse Asiwaju Tinubu for president, Senator Kashim Shettima as vice president, and the re-election of Sanwo-Olu as Governor and Dr. Obafemi Hamzat as deputy governor,” he stated. Speaking at the event, which doubled as the formal inauguration of 10,000 Foot Soldiers for Tinubu/Shettima and Sanwo-Olu/Hamzat, the former Governor of Lagos State and Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola, said: “If they ask you why you must vote for the APC, tell them all roads that link Lagos to the rest of the country is being done by APC; PDP didn’t do it for 16 years that it was in government. “Asiwaju initiated the Lekki Free Trade Zone and I started it. The Lekki Port is for the benefit of the people and it has been inaugurated.” He explained that the PDP was divided against itself, so the G-5 governors’ subtraction was one that has no cure. “Atiku has not only divided the party but also the country,” he added. In a veiled reference to the governorship candidate of the PDP in Lagos State, Dr. Olajide Adediran, popularly called Jandor, Fashola stated:  “I know someone who thinks because he follows us as a cameraman, he can become the Governor; you need experience. I did that for eight years, so I know what it takes. Part of what helped me was because I was once a Chief of Staff. Come to our leadership service.” He stressed: “I must vote for Sanwo-Olu because we have to pay him back for saving lives during COVID-19 pandemic. “It is not about whether we will beat them; it is about beating them convincingly. We must go out and use our strength.”