By Chukwuma Umeorah  The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has warned all stakeholders including the electorate against partaking in activities that could jeopardise the credibility of the presidential elections.  The newly elected president of NLC, Joe Ajaero, gave the warning yesterday while speaking at a one-day workshop in Lagos, organised by Labour Writers Association of Nigeria (LAWAN) in collaboration with Friedrich Ebert Stiftung (FES).  Ajaero who was represented by the chairperson of NLC, Lagos State, Funmi Sessi, specifically emphasized on the spread of fake news, misinformation and use of inflammatory statements that could incite violence.  She noted that the country was at a very sensitive point and vehemently advised politicians, party members and other relevant stakeholders against the abuse the traditional media and other unregulated platforms like social media targeted at the electorates to play the divide and rule political card.  While commending the introduction of BVAS and application of technology in preparation to the elections, she however warned of its disadvantages as it can be manipulated by some unscrupulous elements with selfish political interests.  On the issue of Naira redesign and fuel scarcity which has subjected many Nigerians to undue hardship and the supposed silence of the NLC in addressing such issues, she said that the congress has been deliberate in it’s response so as not to make statements that could further degenerate the situation.  “We have purposely refrained from making any comments so as to maintain the peaceful tranquility that we have in this country. If the NLC should come out to make any inflammatory statement, Nigeria would be under fire. This is the opportunity some fifth columnist are waiting for so as to disrupt a free, fair and credible election.”  She noted that the country was passing through a very challenging phase but encouraged the citizens to keep faith with their Permanent Voter Card (PVC) as they head to the polling units in a few days.  The Chairman of LAWAN, Toba Agboola underscored the relevance of the theme of the workshop, “Beyond Voting: Roles of citizens in ensuring a free, fair and transparent 2023 election” stressing that its purpose is to assess the current political and electoral readiness of all relevant stakeholders.  For his part, the Director General of National Employers Consultative Association (NECA), Adewale Oyerinde, who was represented by the Assistant Director, NECA, Adebola Akinwande, noted that the choice of leaders in the 2023 elections was critical to the social economic well-being of the nation and advised citizens to vote a candidate that has capacity  to revamp the nation’s dwindling economy.  With regards to security and maintenance of law and order for the period of the elections, the Public Relations Officer, Lagos State Police command, Ben Hundenyin who was represented by DSP Chinwe Zita assured that the Police has put all necessary measures in place to forestall any form of violence and ensure peaceful conduct.