From Joseph Obukata, Warri A recalcitrant militant group in Niger Delta region, under the auspices of Niger Delta Liberation Movement (NDLM), has endorsed the All Progressive Congress (APC) Presidential Candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as their preferred Candidate to take over from Buhari. The group made the resolution yesterday rising from a crucial meeting held in the riverine Egbema community, Delta State, which lasted for over six hours. Addressing Journalists on behalf of the militants at the end of the meeting where final decision was taken, spokesperson of the militant, ‘Commander’ Amabiri Andabiri said; “We the Niger Delta Liberation Movement with over one million registered members of Niger Delta youths, hereby endorse Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for president come February 25th Presidential election. “We are the most dreaded militant group in Niger Delta and it is the watch dog of Niger Delta. After the amnesty in the year 2009, when the defunct Movement for the Emancipation of Niger Delta (MEND) and other ex-militant group abandoned the cause of Niger Delta and accepted the fallacious amnesty programme, this group (Niger Delta Liberation Movement) have been on ground safeguarding the length and breadth of Niger Delta region”. “Today, we met and agreed to mobilise everything within our power to see Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu emerge as the President of the Federal republic of Nigeria come February 25th election. This is because Asiwaju is not like other political gladiators go into hiding in other countries after failing elections”. “If you look at the content of all the presidential candidates and their antecedents, non of them are living in the place they have governed except Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu who was two time Governor of Lagos state. Atiku was also elected governor before he became vice president of Nigeria, but he doesn’t live in Adamawa state where he hails from.” ” Look at Peter Obi who was also a two time governor, he could not even build a functional airport in Anambra state before his tenure expired but he has been busy saying he stored money without ideas, no innovation, no functional airport. So what kind of development is he clamouring for, when Anambra people travail to nearby states before they can take fight. Peter Obi is not a character that is worthy of entrusting the nation onto.” “But Tinubu has been the brain behind the emergence of the governors fron Fashola to Ambode to Sanwo-Olu and he has been supporting them to make sure Lagos state become what it is today. And he will replicate that into the country when he emerges. “Tinubu is Niger Delta Inlaw from Ayakoromor Community in Delta state. Apart from the fact that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu married an Itsekiri woman, his elder brother also married to an Ijaw woman from Ayakoromor in Delta state. Even Asiwaju’s Son Seyi Tinubu married to an Igbo woman in South East. So these are our people because by marriage we are brothers and sisters; and with the capacity and people around Tinubu, we are convinced that he will be a good president.” “Therefore, we are pulling our weight behind Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and we will not hesitate to clear any obstacle that will hinder the victory of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in February 25th presidential election. We will also mobilized millions of supporters to vote for him because this group is in talk with Ex-MEND and other top militant groups to come together to work for the victory of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu”.