From Gyang Bere, Jos The Governorship Candidate of the People Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau State, Barr. Caleb Mutfwang said the party is the most prepared political party to win the 2023 general elections. He maintained that PDP is fully ready and well prepared for the next election, saying, even if elections are conducted tomorrow, it will win with landslide in Plateau and in the entire country. Mutfwang in company of his running mate, Mrs. Josephine Piyo and top party officials disclosed this in Langtang North during the commissioning of multi million naira Hon. Beni Lar Entrepreneurship Centre, build by the National Research Institute for Chemical Technology (NARICT). “Based on the evidence on ground, PDP is the safest and the most prepared political party to win the 2023 general elections, we should key into the party’s philosophy to unify, reclaim and rebuild our state and nation.” He noted further, “We are in Langtang North/Langtang South in continuation of our engagement with the people towards the general elections. We also have the privilege and honour to commissioned several projects that was attracted by Hon. Beni Lar member representing Langtang North/Langtang South federal Constituency.” Mutfwang assured that if elected as the governor of the state, he will ensure good governance, provide quality leadership, the type people of the state are yearning for adding that “They will be proud to say this is our governor and I can assured you that peace, industrialization, education and good governance will be the hallmark of my administration.” He stated.  Chairman House Committee on Science and Technology and Member representing Langtang North/Langtang South, Hon. Beni Lar who spoke on the impact of the project on her constituents said the the entrepreneur center will harness and prepare talented youths in the locality for industrialization. “We have a lots of idle youths around doing nothing. We have all the raw materials, resources that are needed just simply harness it and engaged them so that they can be useful to the society. That is why the National Agency for the Research in Chemical Technology was established to train the youths in various Entrepreneurship skills. “Every young person can be trained to produce organic fertilizer, football, and any sort of chemical technology application like plastic cups, slippers and so on.The equipment for the laboratory is already on the way. My constituency has a lot of Nim trees, they can make soap, medication and so many things from it” she stated. Hon. Lar explained that research has shown that they have the best soil here where there is huge deposit of literite and so on, adding that ” it was also discovered that this is the best place to establish the National Research Institute for Chemical Technology NARICT in the North Central Office for Six states.” Mutfwang and his team also had a town hall meeting with stakeholders in Langtang North/Langtang South and later commissioned 1 block of 6 Classrooms at Turaki, a Mordern Town Hall at Sabon Gida with the state of the art Communication facilities, classroom blocks including administrative block at Government College Pyache, and many others.