From Felix Ikem, Nsukka Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has said that education is fundamental to the development of people culturally, socially, economically, and politically. Ugwuanyi said this in Nsukka on Thursday during the Association of Nsukka Professors (ANP)’s 5th Adada Lecture and Official Unveiling of the State University of Medical and Applied Science, Igbo-Eno (SUMAS) with the theme; “Leadership, Education and Inclusive Development.” He said that leadership, education, and development are mutually related, stressing that a productive economy can only be achieved by an enlightened and motivated workforce which he noted are products of education and leadership. “The meeting point between leadership, education, and development can neither be noticed nor differentiated because education empowers people to take advantage of opportunities, information, and life skill that they need to realize their potential. “Education builds capacity and increases knowledge that enables one to acquire leadership skills. Therefore, leadership, education, and development are mutually related. “A productive and viable economy can only be achieved by an enlightened, resourceful, and properly motivated workforce which is the product of education and leadership,” he said. Speaking further, the Governor said that his administration had prioritized education since its assumption of office in 2015 because of its important development. “We are glad our effort has yielded results by helping the state to attain milestones in education. “My administration constructed and reconstructed thousands of primary and secondary school blocks hostels across six education zones in the state. “We recruited over 7,030 primary and secondary school teachers and conversion of 1000 teachers initially recruited as ad-hoc staff to permanent and released all outstanding areas and promotions,” he said. Ugwuanyi said also that higher institutions owned by the state like Enugu University of Science and Technology (ESUT), Institute of Management and Technology (IMT), among others also received adequate attention from his administration.Ugwuanyi also said other sectors of the economy witnessed positive and practical transformations that had Enugu State the destination of investors in the country. The Governor had earlier on arrival before the lecture officially unveiled the university structures after being conducted around the university by the vice chancellor, Prof. James Ogbonna In a remark, Prof. Ogbonna, the Vice Chancellor of SUMAS said that the occasion is unique and historical because it was meant to unveil the university officially, as well as to present the 5th Adada Lecture. He thanked the Governor for establishing the university which he said would help to admit more candidates seeking for medisin admission and other medical courses. “Both University of Nigeria, Nsukka and ESUT admit less 10 per cent of indigenes of Enugu state seeking admissions in medicine and other related courses. “For establishing and equipping this university Ugwuanyi has written his name in gold as future generations will remain grateful for him. “I will remain grateful to governor Ugwuanyi and the good people of Enugu State for finding me worthy to be the pioneer VC of the university and promised that I will not disappoint in the confidence reposed on me,” he said. Earlier in a remark, Prof Ossy Okanya of ANP said that Ugwuanyi was the first governor in Enugu state to attend the Adada lecture, also and the first to be the guest lecturer. Okanya said that the association is certified with the performance of Ugwuanyi as a lawmaker and also as a governor in the past 7 years which was why he was chosen to deliver this lecture so that the public will learn from his good leadership skills. “A clear analysis of governance in Enugu State since 2015 Ugwuanyi assumed office shows that the state has recorded landmark achievement in all sectors of the economy in the three senatorial zones without discrimination,” he said. The president expressed appreciation to guests who came from far and near for the lecture despite economic hardship in the country and the scarcity of fuel and new naira notes. The occasion which was chaired by Justice Chima Nweze, Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria, but was represented by Justice Ken Okpe of the Enugu High Court, had other dignitaries from all work of life in attendance.