By Billy Graham Abel, Yola Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. People’s Democratic Party presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar says he is more than determined to unite and secure the country to sustain peace and development if elected president in the February 25 presidential election. Atiku said his candidacy represents an outcry of the Nigerian people who have been yearning for a responsive government that would deal with the multifaceted issues of nepotism, insecurity, acute poverty, lack of economic development and unemployment in the country. The candidate made the remarks at the grand rally rounding off his nationwide presidential campaign tour in Yola, Adamawa state. Speaking at the occasion, Atiku Abubakar thanked Nigerians for the overwhelming support he enjoyed while on a nationwide campaign tour and promised to rebuild Nigeria into a country where every citizen will be proud to call home. The People’s Democratic Party PDP presidential candidate, Abubakar says he is more than determined to to sustain peace and development and that he is a gift to the nation to end Nigeria’s era of under development. Atiku aaid if elected the president of the country Come 25th February 2023 elections, it will be the beginning of the birth of a new Nigeria. He said, “I have the capacity, competence and experience to transform Nigeria and bring the much needed development that Nigerians have been praying for. “I promise to deal decisively with the issue of security, to grow our ailing economy and to fix our deplorable education and infrastructural dearth.” The running mate of the PDP presidential candidate and governor of Delta state, Ifeanyi Okowa, thanked the people of Adamawa for giving the party a competent and outstanding son who is a gift to nation to fix Nigeria’s problems. He called on all Nigerians to massively vote for Atiku Abubakar for a rapid and immediate transformation Speaking at the occasion, the former president of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, sounded a warning to Nigerians that the the March presidential elections is not a time to experiment with governance and leadership. “Nigeria, this is not the time to experiment with governance. Atiku is the best among presidential candidates, he us the one that knows the corporate world, he is the one that has the capacity and experience to resurrect out industries and economy,” Saraki said. “This is not the time to repeat our mistake and hand over the country to incompetent and empty promises politicians.” The presidential grand rally of the PDP was attended by a mammoth crowd of party faithfuls. The highlight of the occasion was the collapse of the structure of five political parties in support of the standard flag bearer of the PDP. This announcement was made by the National Chairman of the APM, Yusuf Dantalle, at the rally ground.