…Vows to ban Agbero in state By Christy Anyanwu Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Governorship candidate of the Accord Party for Lagos State in the March 11, election, Hon. Hakeem Olaogun Dickson (HOD), is a seasoned administrator and politician with outstanding managerial skills.  He has contributed his quota at various times to the development of Lagos State. As the chairman of Surulere Local Government Area, he introduced a traffic control agency to regulate the chaotic traffic in Surulere, which later metamorphosed into the popular Lagos State Transport Management Authority (LASTMA).  He was the first local government chairman to raise N1 billion as internally generated revenue for Lagos State during Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s tenure as governor. To improve students’ performance, he set aside bursary awards that were disbursed in government-run colleges across Surulere to over 120 students with exceptional academic performance annually.  In 2003, he was appointed Special Adviser to the Minister of Works, and in 2016, he became director-general/CEO of Lagos State Safety Commission. In this interview, he gave insights into why he wants to be governor, his action plans and how he will turn things around for the better if elected chief ececutive of the state. Excerpts: Why did it take you so long to contest for the office of governor? Actually, I have been taking my time to see what is happening. When I was the Surulere Local Government chairman, people were saying I would be the next governor of Lagos State. I said, no. Let me go back to the local government and do a second term. Suddenly, they now said, go to the House of Representatives. Later, they said, no, let Femi Gbajabiamila go to the House of Representatives, and that I would go after him. Then I waited. I kept waiting and waiting over the years. What happened to the promise? I just found out that it’s time for me to come out, and I need to change the narrative. Why do you want to be governor of Lagos State? I want to change the politics that has shut us out in Lagos State, politics that has told us to settle without a choice. Politics that was designed to cage us, but now we are tired of being caged. Politics that says our votes do not count, now they will count. I will be the game-changer for all Lagosians and residents of Lagos State. If you keep silent in the face of oppression, you are on the side of the oppressor. I have decided not to be part of the problem, but to be a part of the solution. In fact, I have seen and made myself the solution to the lapses, oppression and shortcomings of the ruling party in Lagos. All illegal arrests and killings by police will stop in Lagos State.  Instead of running for governor, why didn’t you come out for House of Representatives or Senate? I am very good when it comes to managing people and managing resources. It is a different ballgame. I’m very good when it comes to leadership.   What would you do differently, if you become governor? You will see something different in transportation, traffic, and changes in infrastructure, changes in employment. You will see Lagos as a safe place, liveable, functional and at the same time safe. It has to be what people want, not what godfathers want. Under my watch as the governor of Lagos State, I will boldly correct all past injustices, corrupt acts and policies against the collective interests of Lagosians. Let me state here that my administration will demonstrate a high sense of urgency, transparency, justice and innovation to tackle and solve the problems of poverty, illiteracy, disease and poor infrastructure. I will use all means to tackle insecurity, like helicopters and forensic science to fight crimes. What is your take on Agberos in Lagos? My own plan is very simple. You will not see Agberos on our major roads again. You will only see them in places like Ikorodu where there are inner places, people living there  need a form of transport system to come to the main road. Danfo/Korope will be operating in those inner areas to enable free flow of traffic in all the major and federal roads. You must have your driver’s license because we have to make more money for Lagos State from those violating the law. Agbero’s, I don’t believe in associations. I don’t care what would happen. I’m ready to put sanity into Lagos when it comes to transportation.  When I first travelled to England, I got to London and wanted to take a bus, there was nobody at the bus stops telling me stuffs. We don’t need them. There will be enough signages on the road, but because of people living inside I would allow the Danfos and Koropes, but they must comply with all safety measures. I will introduce railway lines and cargo railway lines. At least a minimum of 600 to 800 buses will be imported into Lagos…. What’s your take on Lagos as a mega city? The 1999 vision for Lagos was to make it a megacity. The pioneer of this vision did not foresee the aftermath of a megacity. The resultant effects of a megacity are overpopulation, incessant crimes, environmental pollution, insufficient employment opportunities, illegal activities, poor housing scheme, underfunded health care system and increase in poverty level. Notably, Lagos is already a megacity. What the HOD Accord seeks to do is to ensure that Lagos becomes a functional, liveable, safe and sustainable city. To provide realistic solutions to the defects that come with a megacity, we will ensure that we work with the youths and involve them in the affairs of state to make Lagos a smart city. Thus, with the seven-point agenda, we look forward to changing the thinking and mindset of every individual in Lagos State to reason with us and work together to achieve a safe city. We will focus on freedom, restitution, summit, reforms and compliance, safety and environment security, finance and insurance, information and communication technology, poverty alleviation, human capital development, education, health, infrastructure, transportation, electricity, traffic and housing, art, culture, entertainment, tourism and sports. We have compromised for too long, and the time is now for a new change in governance. The issues we are facing in the state can only be traced to the insensitivity of the leaders for bad decisions made by distant executives; lack of youth empowerment programmes; inadequate provision of basic health care; shortfall of quality and qualitative education; lack of safety and security; and lack of vocational learning development.   Tell us about your seven-point agenda…? It is embodied in Freedom, Restitution, Summit, Reforms, Compliance, Safety and Environment, Security, among others. Freedom from autocratic rule, which is eminent in the Lagos State government, local government autonomy and dissolution of the joint account system. Payment of compensation, according to court rulings. Compensation of all EndSARS victims, and execution of the committee’s recommendations. Payment of all debts owed by the Lagos State government to contractors. Payment of outstanding pensions and increment in minimum wage. Group summits, such as economic, infrastructural, human capital and educational summits, will be hosted. Reformation across every sector, such as transportation, town planning, judiciary and so on. Payment of toll-gate fee within Lagos State will be scrapped. No court case should last more than one year before judgment. Selection of kingship (Oba and other chieftaincy titles) must be done within one month from the demise of the predecessor. Reformation of traditional kingship systems. Establishment of special status for landowners. Re-establishment of perishable food markets, and movement of dumpsites and junkyards to permanent sites. Relocation of Lagos State statue to all Lagos State borders. There is a need to increase compliance at all levels in government and private sector. Safety and environment: Action against climate change and global warming. Environmental policing and reform; implementation of Vision Zero and safety in design; creation of Safety Ministry to drive us to a smart city and facility management systems. Lagos State must be an ISO-certified government; 24-hour emergency response in every local government; establishment of Health and Safety School. Information and communication and technology: E-government, real-time and seamless electronic communication; data analytics, Lagos population, number of employment, unemployment, accidents, women, men, youth, deaths, crime rate, salary scale, poor, middle, rich class, GDP, etc. Tech-related empowerment scheme, small and medium-scale business empowerment; establishment of toll-free numbers in each local government for first response for any emergency; establishment of state secretariat in all senatorial districts; issuance of C-of-O, number plate, LASRRA and general documentation. ICT and small and medium-scale business empowerment will include transfer printing technology, tile-laying and pavement/interlock making, textile design, welding, fabrication, wood and furniture-making, refrigerator and air-conditioner making and repair, computer trading, coding, hairdressing, photography, videography/cinematography, editor/content creator, baking and confectionery, leather works, ICT digital marketing, disk-jockeying, cleaning services, fashion design, make-up, aluminum fabrication, horticulture, health and safety. Under human capital development, we have education, health and government, maintenance and bigger investment in Universal Basic Education and Yoruba language. More funding in education; provision of financial aid, and student loans to students in higher institutions. Establishment of “non-matriculated students” admission policy; complete higher education reforms; rehabilitation of higher institutions and introduction of degree programmes such as School of Criminology. Investment in technical education with two-year degree certificate.  Investment in technical educational equipment; introduction of practical technology courses; establishment of research and development institutes and research centres in universities; provision of research (including travel) grants to academics; provision of textbooks and all supporting education materials; building of more state university campuses in all the senatorial areas. Infrastructure: Transportation, electricity, traffic and housing will entail establishment of the Lagos Railway Corporation, introduction of electric train and light rails; construction of the Lagos International Airport; revitalization and investment in waterways transportation; construction of more access and link roads. Establishment of short helicopter services in all senatorial districts. Electricity: Investment in green sustainable electricity for optimum distribution and ability to sue electricity distribution companies for their negligence; investment in low-cost housing schemes; real-time and tech-enhanced traffic management. Waste management: Waste-to-wealth is a must. Construction of more roads and rehabilitation of damaged roads. Town planning reforms; investment in water treatment plant in each ward; creation of standard, 24/7 general hospitals in each LGA; building primary health care centres in each ward; prompt payment of salary on last Friday of every month, plus ’ember month payment. Art, culture, youth, physically-challenged persons, women, entertainment, tourism and sports. Investment in arts, culture, tradition and tourism. Investment in talent development, entertainment, and promotion of Afrocentrism. Guaranty of freedom of conscience and religion. Construction of stadiums and recreational centres in all senatorial districts. Polo, golf, Formula 1, rugby, carting and other sports will be promoted. Massive youth and physically-challenged persons’ empowerment programmes and inclusion in government. Establishment of business support, empowerment, and political inclusion of women. Plan to redesign, rehabilitate all our burial grounds to European standards.  What advice do you have for the electorate, come February 25 elections? I don’t want you Lagosians to forget who killed your brothers, sisters and friends at Lekki Toll Gate. Don’t forget who failed to put your money in your account during COVID-19 lockdown, but went to cook rice for street boys. Don’t forget who called Mr. President to declare state of emergency in Lagos.