One week after they started their action, over 120 frontline anti-corruption Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), yesterday rounded off their action with a town hall meeting, in Lagos. The CSOs last week Friday started a protest against what they called “Politicisation of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Disobedience of Court Orders and Infringement on Human Rights of Nigerians,” under the leadership of Abdulrasheed Bawa. Leaders of the CSOs’ protest had given the Inspector-General of Police a seven-day ultimatum to effect the court order that committed Bawa to prison for contempt. The CSOs vowed to jointly and individually petition relevant international agencies, demanding sanctions against Bawa. Spokesperson for the Transparency and Accountability Group, Ayodeji Ologun, insisted that the EFCC boss could not appeal the contempt ruling without first obeying the order. He said the politicisation of the EFCC was evident in the slant of its operations, noting that while series of petitions were piled up unattended at the EFCC offices on monumental corruption across Nigeria, the commission is becoming selective. The activists kicked strongly against the EFCC’s statement that they were hired CSOs, saying those in the struggle had been at the forefront of the fight against corruption for years and were well known for their doggedness and patriotism. Director, Activists for Good Governance, Declan Ihehaire, said: “Whoever is saying we were paid to do this must be thoroughly examined. We are strictly activists, not political jobbers.” The CSOs called on President Muhammadu Buhari to put machineries in motion to sanitise the commission so that the war against criminals and corrupt elements in Nigeria would make a meaning. Reviewing the protests so far, spokesman for Coalition of Anti-corruption Organisations, Olufemi Lawson stated: “For one week, we have, as a coalition, embarked on a sustained agitation for the removal of Mr Abdulrasheed Bawa as the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission.  The Coalition, comprising over 120 active organisations, has been able to sustain this. “We are by this medium, giving a seven-day ultimatum to President Muhammadu Buhari, in line with the mood of the nation currently, to direct the Inspector General of Police to effect the arrest order on Bawa and commit him to prison, as ordered by the court, after which our nationwide protests would resume.”