•Cripple arrested for sodomising 5-year-old boy  From Olanrewaju Lawal, Birnin Kebbi Kebbi State Police Command has apprehended three suspects for being in possession of N17 million counterfeit currency notes in Warrah town of Ngaski Local Government Area of the state. Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ahmed Magaji Kontagora, who confirmed this while parading some suspects at the police headquarters, Birnin Kebbi, disclosed that the suspects were arrested with the assistance of National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) at the Warrah motor park. He said: “On 29/01/2023, at about 0910hrs, police personnel attached to Warrah Police Station, with the help of NURTW at Warrah motor park, arrested three people in possession of currency notes worth N17,000,000, reasonably suspected to be counterfeit. “The suspects are Faruku Zubairu, Ibrahim Musa and Salish Muhammed, all ‘m’ of Gungun Tawaye and Chupamini villages, Ngaski LGA, respectively. Investigation has been completed and the suspects will soon be charged to court for prosecution,” he said. Kontagora, also, disclosed that the 25-year-old boy, Yunusa Adamu of the Bumawa area of Koko town, was arrested for allegedly rapping a five-year-old Fatima Abdulrahman in his mother’s room, gave her N20, N30, N50 and threatened to kill her if she revealed the secret. While parading the cripple allegedly defiled, a five-year-old boy, CP Kontagora explained that the 20-year-old boy, Sani Abubakar, threatened to kill the boy if he divulged his atrocity with him. “On February 2, 2023, at about 1330hrs, one Sani Abubakar, ‘m’ aged 20 years of the Tudun Wada area, Kalgo town, sexually harassed one Mustapha Aliyu,’m’ aged five years of the same address and attempted to forcefully have sexual intercourse with him through his anus, which is against the order of nature. He further threatened to kill him if he dared to disclose the secret between them.  “The suspect will be charged to court after completion of investigation,” he said.  He disclosed that his offers also arrested another rapist, identified as Bello Shehu, 27, for allegedly raping one Fadila Umar, 15, in conspiring with his friend, Yahaya Abdullahi, now at large, when the victim was going to Islamiyyah school on February 4, 2023, at the Badariya area, Birnin Kebbi. The Commissioner of Police, who explained that the suspect deceitfully lured the victim into her room and had sexual intercourse with her, said efforts were being intensified to arrest the fleeing suspect for a thorough investigation and prosecution accordingly.