Workers of Enugu State, under the auspices of the Organised Labour, yesterday, thanked Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for his unprecedented interventions in improving their welfare. The workers said despite that he assumed office in 2015 and experienced avalanche of challenges, including economic recession, lean resources, outbreak of COVID-19 and security issues, Governor Ugwuanyi gave their welfare the priority it deserves by introducing the payment of 13th month salary as well as N30,000 new minimum wage with its consequential adjustment. Stressing that Ugwuanyi was the first governor of Enugu State to witness economic recession on two occasions in five years, and faced with the challenges of not being in the same political party with the government at the national level, the Enugu workers said the governor utmost commitment to their welfare first manifested shortly after he assumed office when his administration paid 54 per cent equity contribution for 100 lucky civil servants who won the 100 units one bedroom apartments at Elim Estate, Enugu through open lottery. They added that the governor ensured regular payment of their salaries and retirees’ pensions at the end of the month even at the peak of the nation’s economic recession when 27 states could not pay workers’ salaries. They further said he approved improved hazard allowance and life assurance policy for frontline workers, and 60 per cent Consolidated Health Salary Structure (CONHESS) for health workers amid economic hardship as well as the N100 million earmarked monthly for payment backlog of gratuities inherited by his administration which was put on hold because of the adverse effects of COVID-19. The workers stated that besides numerous benefits from Governor Ugwuanyi’s administration towards the improvement of their welfare, they experienced an uncommon level of peace and industry harmony with the governor. Speaking on their behalf during workers’ prayer rally at the state secretariat, Enugu, which was graced by Governor Ugwuanyi, Chairman of Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC), Bennett Asogwa, said the governor gave them the best considering their experience with previous administrations. Asogwa said: “We have had a good time with you,” adding: “We may not have got everything but any child who goes to school and comes back with the result of 90 per cent has scored so well. “You came in as governor of Enugu State when there was economic recession but you were able to pay workers’ salaries and carry out development projects. “This is the first time Enugu State government is in the opposition political party at the national level and the challenges attached to that. But despite all these, you were able to do the much you did for us and the state in terms of peace and good governance. “We thank you that the minimum wage was extended to local government workers. We pray that you increase it before you leave us and attend to other things we are demanding from the government before the end of your tenure. “Our hope and prayer is that the person who will take over from you will continue to give workers’ welfare priority.” Offering prayers for Governor Ugwuanyi, Chairman of Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, Godwin Madu, appreciated the governor for the peace and good governance he has entrenched in the state. Madu also appreciated Governor Ugwuanyi for managing the little resources at his disposal for development issues, and for entrusting Enugu State to the hands of God, stressing that, “We have not had it so good.” Madu prayed against any force against the governor as well as the peace and progress of the state, assuring the governor, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for Enugu North senatorial district in the forthcoming general election that “the reward for good work is more work. You will get to the Red Chamber(s).” The cleric equally prayed for peaceful and successful elections in Enugu State in particular and Nigeria in general, stating: “We know where we are.”