….Records 300 rights violations By Lukman Olabiyi The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has charged the Nigeria Police Force (NPF), and other law enforcement and agencies to arrest and prosecute electoral law offenders. NHRC gave the charge in its preliminary statement, issued by  it’s Executive Secretary, Mr. Tony Ojukwu, SAN ,on the 2023 Presidential and National Assembly ,yesterday. In the statement, the commission commended Nigerians for turning out in unprecedented numbers to exercise their right to vote as guaranteed by the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and regional and international human rights instruments which Nigeria is party to.    On it analysis of the poll, It stated that during election, its’ 800 human rights monitors, recorded and reported over 300 incidents of human rights violations,and infractions of the electoral process to the human rights situation room. He added that vote buying was reported in 42 locations across the country, particularly in Lagos, Imo, Sokoto, Jigawa, Edo, Nasarawa, Jigawa, and Kogi states,”voters were offered money or other incentives to influence their votes”. The commission also noted with regret, the disenfranchisement of Nigerians across Lagos, Bayelsa, and Kogi states. On recommendations for the poll and the forthcoming Governorship and House of Assembly elections, the commission urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure that Nigerians, who were disenfranchised on election day are able to vote in the rescheduled elections.  NHRC held that disenfranchisement is a violation of the right to vote and could be a major trigger for election violence and impacts on the legitimacy and acceptability of election results.  The commission implored INEC to ensure prompt uploads of results of elections into its election results portals to ensure transparency and integrity in the electoral process. NHRC tasked the  police and other security agencies on security of electoral materials and personnel in the rescheduled elections and the forthcoming Gubernatorial and House of Assembly elections.   “INEC should ontinue to maintain political neutrality and impartiality in election operations. It should arrest and prosecute all cases of political violence, including attacks, and snatching of ballot boxes and materials.It should   manage and contain using human rights-based approaches, case of post-election violence and ensure the protection of life and properties as we enter into a critical period in the electoral process”.