From Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja The Muhammadu Buhari-Yemi Osinbajo  Nationwide Supporters Group has dumped the All Progressives Congress ( APC) for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). National Coordinator of the Support Group,  Danjuma Fachiwe Gwoza, who spoke at  a press briefing, yesterday, in Abuja, said the group which hitherto worked for the victory of President Buhari and his vice Osinbajo, would now be working for the success of the Atiku Abubakar/Ifaenyi  Okowa presidential ticket in Saturday’s election. He  said the group has collapsed its structure into the PDP presidential campaign council and has commenced massive mobilisation of votes for the PDP presidential candidate across the country. He also begged Nigerians for forgiveness for  “blindly supporting” the APC and  installing an administration which  allegedly  brought “so much anguish” on the people. “The members of the President Muhammadu Buhari/ Yemi Osinbajo Nationwide Supporters Group wish to officially decamp and transmute her operations to the Atiku/Okowa Nationwide Supporters Group under the directive of PDP Presidential Campaign Council (PCC). Our group is a formidable conglomerate of political sagacious like-minded individuals made of different supporters’ group, such as artisan a youth organisations. However, our membership strength now stands at 9,313,846. We contributed immensely to the votes recorded by INEC, which saw the emergence of the Buhari/Osinbajo victory at polls in 2015 and 2019 Presidential elections, respectively. “The members of this conglomerate sincerely apologize to Nigerian, for our blind support given to the APC-led bankrupt government that have failed to deliver on its campaign promise to the electorates. This colossal failure has caused the nation unbearable quagmire,” Gwoza said. He said the group has embarked on continuous train the trainers Voters’ Education Program, primarily designed to enhance the electoral fortune of the Atiku/Okowa campaign mercenary.  “We are confident of the newly 2022 amended electoral acts which guaranty electronic transmission of  results. I stand to proclaim with my teeming members that the victory of Atiku/Okowa is sacrosanct, as we move into the rebirth of a new Nigeria,” he said.