•Youths destroy hideout, recover 3 kids  Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Ogbonnaya Ndukwe, Aba The Abia State Police Command has busted a  syndicate involved in the stealing and selling of stolen babies in Aba. Already, the police have arrested  three members of the syndicate,  and rescued  three babies, who were about being sold.  The syndicate, had operated  unnoticed for several years within People’s Road axis of Ogbor Hill, Aba North Council Area. The syndicate  was allegedly managed by a man, identified  as Black, and assisted by two women, among other agents. It was gathered that a woman, who purportedly bought  a little boy from Black, had taken the kid to the popular School Road area of Ngwa Road market, where the child was identified by a relation who  knew his real parents.   The boy had earlier been declared missing, and had not been found prior to the outing with his abductor . According to sources close to the market, the relation had raised the  alarm, which attracted a crowd that apprehended the suspect, who while pleading for her dear life, referred the mob, to People’s Road in Ogbor Hill, where she claimed to have   bought him from one Black, and his assistants. On hearing the story, youths in the community, engaged in a search, and discovered three other children being hidden in the syndicate’s hideout, and invited the police after alerting the traditional ruler of Ogbor Community, Eze Samuel Egege. Eze Egege, while commending the youths, said the community leadership would not condone acts of criminality, adding that it was unbelievable that the culprits had concealed their nefarious dealings for a  long time, but was glad that  they were  finally caught. I am happy that you did not take laws into  your hands by lynching  the suspects in our community. “I  believe the police will do a thorough job to clear Aba of hoodlums, kidnappers, as well as those involved in such heinous crimes as stealing, and selling of children.” However, Abia  State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) Geoffrey Ogbonna, could no be reached  as his phone was said to be unreachable.