From Olanrewaju Lawal, Birnin Kebbi Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The new Customs Comptroller, Kebbi State Command, Ben Oramalugo, has assumed office. The Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the Command, CSC Nasiru Manga, confirmed this in a statement made available to newsmen in Birnin Kebbi. According to him, “the newly appointed Customs Area Controller, Kebbi Command, Comptroller Ben Oramalugo Phd FNIM has assumed duty today, Wednesday, 1st February 2023 with a pledge to build on his predecessor’s successes in improved revenue generation and sustaining the tempo in combating smuggling activities in the state. “Speaking shortly after taking over in a brief ceremony held at the Command Headquarters in Birnin Kebbi, the new Area Controller expressed his commitment to deliver on his mandate even as he charged officers and men of the Command to be committed to their duty. “As Customs officers, we have core mandates of revenue generation, trade facilitation and suppression of smuggling, among others. And that is exactly what we are going to do. I promise that I will leave no stone unturned in realizing those mandates. It’s the trust and confidence reposed in me by the management under the leadership of Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (Rtd) and we will never falter or waver in living up to our responsibility”, he said. Oramalugo, according to PRP, also charged officers and men of the Command to be disciplined, dedicated to duties and law-abiding in carrying out their statutory functions. “He stressed that recording more seizures in an enforcement area is the key performance indicator, calling on all officers of the Command to work in harmony in order to achieve the desired result. “You should note that I am here to work, not to play around. Without mincing words here, I need results as I am a result-oriented person”, he added. “The CAC also sought the support and understanding of all relevant stakeholders in the State, urging importers and agents to operate in compliance with Customs extant rules and procedures while declaring their goods without compromising set standards”, he added. Earlier, the outgoing Ag. Controller, Comptroller Abdullahi Kazaure congratulated the new CAC on his appointment, wished him a successful stewardship in the Command and urged officers and men of the Command to give him maximum support and cooperation to deliver on his mandate. Comptroller Oramalugo, a graduate of History Education from the University of Benin, with an MSc in International Politics and a PhD in History and Strategic Studies, hails from Enugu State. His reputation as a scholar who published books and scholarly articles in journals and peer-reviewed publications, especially in Customs Administration in Nigeria will come to bear as he steers the affairs of the Command towards the generation of more revenue for the government and combating smuggling.