….As Justice Buba  bows out From Godwin Tsa, Abuja The Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, has reiterated its resolve to protect Judges from unmerited and unnecessary malicious attacks by unscrupulous elements in the society. President of the NBA, Mr. Yakubu Maikyau, SAN, who insisted on protecting the sanctity of the judiciary and judicial officers noted that such baseless attacks are capable of erroding the public confidence in the judiciary and breeding anarchy in the country. He spoke in Abuja on Thursday at the valedictory court session of tge Federal High Court in honour of retired Justice Ibrahim Nyaure Buba. The NBA president equally frowned at the cacophony of discordant voices raised in criticism of judges by some lawyers after a decision did not go their way. He warned lawyers to desist from such acts as it is capable of desecrating the sanctity of the nation’s judiciary. The NBA president disclosed that under his watch, the NBA will do everything within the ambit of the law to defend the integrity of the judiciary. The association paid glowing tribute to retired Justice Buba describing him as a quintessential and uncorruptible jurist who has contributed his quota in the development of the nation. On his part, the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Justice John Tsoho described the valedictorian as a hardworking jurist with a display of scholarly knowledge of the law, wealth of experience and diligence. “In his 19 years of service to this court and Nigeria, he added immensely to the growth of the Nigerian jurisprudence, especially the core areas of the court’s jurisdiction. ” He has delivered various landmark decisions in commercial law, Admiralty law, Constitutional law, Criminal law (including Terrorism) and also insolvency matters. “The Valedictorian has successfully navigated the bench unblemished. He is an accomplished and erudite judge cum lecturer. Permit me to stress that Justice Buba is one of the finest and highly cerebral judges this court has produced.” Justice Tsoho concluded. Meanwhile, in his valedictory speech, retired Justice Ibrahim Nyaure Buba harped on the need for Judges to be computer literate as it would enable them discharged their duties creditably and expeditiously. According to him, “Judges must move with the times and embrace the realities of our situation as the interpreter of our laws. ” We are in the 21st century, our judges cannot afford to be 19th century, analogue judges in a 21st century digital world. “We live in a digital world, our judiciary cannot be analogue becausewe shall soon be in the world of metaverse. Those who deny the realities of time they say shall live to be disappointed by history. ” If we do not change the way we do things because nobody had done or no precedence, then the world will be static,” Justice Buba admonished.