“I don’t think it is necessary publishing my contact, please. I was down for many years, not knowing the cause of my problem. I managed to marry a wife and my situation became worse than it was when I was single. I kept struggling without hope even though I had many people that could help me. Any time I called them, they would tell me one story or the other and I continued to manage myself like that, living in penury in the midst of plenty. When I contacted you, I was told what to do. I got four bottles of your oil and did the prayer for favour; at the end of the prayer, God answered me by touching two of my brothers who finally came to my rescue and gave me a huge amount of money. The money I received from them enabled me to start up a business and rent a house in Lagos. I am doing well in my business and God is taking the glory. My wife that has been childless for 11 years used your oil and is pregnant now. God will continue to bless you for us.” Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. – Mr. Sonie H.N., sonienginering83@gmail.com “Dear Professor Uzorma, may God be with you sir. I am very grateful to God who has used your anointing oil to bring freedom, liberty, solution and liberation to my family. Death has always occurred in our family every five to six months for about four years now. We have prayed and fasted for years and the family has conducted so many liberations, yet the problem persisted. We all became confused, until I came across your article and read other people’s testimonies. I decided to contact you and you introduced me to your oil, which I ordered, and the entire family did the prayer. Today, the constant death has ceased and the family is doing well. May God continue to be with you!” – Mr. Dennis Ohia, dennis042@hotmail.co.uk  “Dear Prof, you could recall that I sent my testimony to you last year, which you published. This is the second time I am writing you because something happened to me that made me know that God is truly using you so much. Some people seized my goods for over four months and every effort made to release it failed. When I remembered that I had a little portion of the oil I ordered from you, I decided to call you and you approved that I should use it the second time with special instruction on how to do the prayers. I am glad to inform you that, on the fifth day of the prayer, the man who masterminded the whole thing had issues with his people, and a week thereafter my goods were released. God is great, sir.”  – Mr. Ade W., adeyemiolubowale@gmail.com  All those who know the King shall consequently come to the supreme knowledge of the ancient that the FATHER, the sole Spiritual Head of the whole universe whose effulgence transcends matter, energy, space and time has fully reconnected his own to Himself.    Those who shall be afraid of these unfolding catastrophes should by this announcement know that the end has ended in the middle of a new beginning and the voice of great and mighty spirits have become the voice of men. Though inside the mighty oceans of creation lies the hidden wealth of awaited matrimony and victory. Do not judge this piece by what you claimed to have known in your voyage of life, but endeavour to understand patiently that the ultimate voice of wisdom is the dome of understanding. I’m very much aware of the common but uncommon fact that nobody can contradict nature not even those who perform psychic marvel-miracle. Nature is organized in a way that even the divine obeys it most time while relating to humanity. It is the will of nature that nobody comes into the physical system of reality in corporal form without birth; not even the creator. On this note, therefore, I wish to inform my readers here that God can chose to die if he so desires and can as well chose to live beyond death, while in corporeal form, if he so wishes. Both life and death are corresponding energies and or propensities of his right in every realm of existence. Our Lord Jesus Christ attested to this assertion thus, “No man taketh it from me, but I lay it (my life) down of myself. I have power to lay it (my life) down, and I have power to take it again…” John 10:18. The above reflects the reality of divine power in creation. Life can only come from life while death can as well come from He who originated Himself by being the cause of all things. No one should disassociate him from death because by his inner and un-manifest nature death and resurrection are part of his primordial culture.   They turn out to be cosmic drama of the divine, in order to authenticate his consciousness in us.  Ultimately, there’s nothing like death for God, the uncaused that caused all things into being. Like I said, He is the only being who can dance in the midst of all things, matter, energy, space and time, simultaneously unhurt. He enjoys all things, as part of his mission is to bring the highest eternal bliss into full manifestation in the gross and coarse material body. This divine anthropomorphic manifestation of God, the express identity of ‘imago dei’ in this sphere of existence has brought into consummation the Biblical prophecy thus, “…the kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord, and of his Christ, and; and he shall reign forever and ever” Rev. 11:15. I am sure that he, who wants to compete with the King of Kings in this era, is the fool who says there is no God and that the divine rewards nothing for something; no doubt God sees nothing in vanity and thus rewards vanity with vanity. As the creator obeys nature in this context, He fusses himself into corporal consciousness to learn nothing. However, that which is nothing becomes the basis of knowing all things but such state does not deny him of his primordial reality and symbolic sermons.   He constantly mesmerises his creatures with teachings that can only be understood by only those he has chosen to know. God has blessed humanity in this era by sending a higher version of Himself that is hitherto negated and rejected by great leaders of modern religion. What a shame! There is only one way of coming or descending into the physical world, it must be through birth. The King of kings and the Lord of lords is the product of spoken word of the Supreme Father. The Father has refused to adjust his primordial plans to suit the ignoble sequence of the credo of the church. Yes, the divine cannot change his prearranged and destined programmes for humanity as a result of the foolishness of man’s creed. It’s on record that the Supreme Father and the primordial owner of the vineyard hidden for a while became man in a mysterious way and fulfilled the ancient rewritten history contained in most hidden books and libraries of the world that the last hope of mankind and the saviour of the universe shall come from sub-Saharan Africa – Nigeria. Several ancient and modern prophecies including that of the French seer Nostradamus attest to the fact that Africa, and Nigeria in particular, is the land of the New Moon. The birth of the unborn fulfilled this Biblical and esoteric prophecy. The father came with the host of heavens as a result, the Supreme Mother manifested to consolidate the mission of the Ancient of Days.