From Okwe Obi, Abuja Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Protesters on Monday obstructed traffic in support of the new monetary policy initiated by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), stating that the initiative would strengthen the naira. The protesters under the guise of Pro Nigeria Group, stormed the headquarters of the CBN l, with placards with inscriptions such as: ‘Na who wan buy votes be criminal, support the CBN;’ ‘Mr. President, expose their corruption’; ‘We believe in Nigeria’; and ‘Good Nigerians support the new CBN naira policy.’ Addressing newsmen, its Convener, Isaac Balami, in Abuja, claimed that politicians were behind agitations for the extension of the deadline for citizens to deposit the old notes. Balami also, accused politicians of planning to buy votes in the 2023 general elections, adding that the new initiative would expose their tricks. He wondered why people who did not care when palliatives were hoarded, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), went on strike and now want to show interest in the well-being of citizens. “We are here today to talk about the monetary policy in CBN. It is very clear that the CBN has given a 10-day extension, and the politicians in this country are trying to play politics to blackmail CBN and, possibly blackmail the president to go back on his words. “We are here to support the CBN policy because we know that this issue of the new policy is going to help to stop vote-buying. Vote-buying is a major problem. “It has destroyed Nigeria. It has destroyed the entire continent and we are saying that enough is enough. “What we are saying now is that the Central bank of Nigeria has released monies to all the banks. “All the banks have money. But politicians are buying this money at a higher cost and at the black market rate and thereby frustrating the citizens to go against CBN and the government. “This is not the first time that our currency is being changed. We know that Nigerians are going through so much pain. “We know that it is not easy. But we appeal for Nigerians to be patient. The issue is like a pregnant woman. We are ready to endure. We are with CBN. “We are with President Muhammadu Buhari on this matter. If you did not care about us when palliatives were released and they kept all the food. “If you did not care when we had fuel queues if you did not come together during the ASUU strike, why are you now worried about monetary policy when we have been killed, kidnapped, brutalised, oppressed, depressed, suppressed and intimidated?”