By Chinelo Obogo           As part of its efforts to improve security in the aviation industry, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has graduated 381 Cadets and instructors commissioned during their passing out parade at Digital Bridge Institute, in Kano State.  The 381 FAAN Aviation Security Cadets have undergone and completed the 13 weeks of intensive training on the STP 123 Basic course in line with ICAO Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPs) and National Civil Aviation Security Training Programme (NCASTP). Speaking at the graduation ceremony, Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika,  said that the successful training of 381 cadet officers is a pride to the nation, saying it is quite reassuring that the federal government has taken the right step in the right direction.  Sirika who was represented by the Director of Safety and Technical Policy, Captain Talba Alkali informed that intensive preparatory work by the training faculty was done through commitment by management to actualize the training.  He said, “This level of commitment is evident before us in the successful completion of this training. Once again, accept my gratitude. My profound gratitude goes also to the Management and Staff of the Digital Bridge Institute Kano for providing an enabling environment with state-of-the-art training facility which has accommodated the 381 cadets and instructors in the last three months.” Describing the achievement as a show of patriotism, commitment and collaboration in promoting the national security of our great nation, Sirika noted that he is sure that all the graduands received the best training and are well equipped with the morals and most noble values that are expected from the training of this calibre  Advising the newly commissioned cadets, the Minister said, “This should come to you as a clarion call to work within the precepts of the training. This training that you have received is expected to commit you to the level of dedication that is expected in ensuring that the nation of Nigeria will not only be proud but also reap the benefits of this well-organised training. “In acceptance to be trained as an aviation security cadet, you must realize that it is a privilege to serve your country at this level as the aviation industry is one place where adherence and commitment to rules and standards are applied strictly to the letter.”  In his keynote address, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, FAAN, Capt. Rabiu Yadudu confirmed that training has enhanced their counter-terrorism skills, conflict management skills, effective communication, information security and effective synergy with sister security agencies in ensuring a safe and secure environment which is one of the aviation security principles. Yadudu said that the crucial role of training in critically reshaping and repositioning the human mind and enabling the skills capacity of personnel towards the attainment of organizational goals can never really be underestimated. He said, “At a time of national security challenges, finding expression in myriad problems and threats such as terrorism, banditry, insurgency, kidnapping etc, the aviation security STP 123 Training programme could not have come at a better time.”  Capt. Yadudu insisted that the STP 123 programme by its design and practical administration of the Aviation security (AVSEC) trainees, will expose them to modern and time-tested ways of managing and drastically reducing national threats at the airports. The AVSEC Commander, Mallam Aminu International Airport, Kano, Mr Tanimu Danjuma Obashe, in his comments said the cadets comprised 55 females and 286 males.  He said they were trained by the Digital Bridge Institute, the Nigerian Immigration Training School Kano and complimentary instructors from FAAN AVSEC tutors.  He said they went through intellectual and physical training, overview of legislations, access control, screening procedures x-ray, image interpretation, effective communication, guarding and patrolling, crowd control, protection of parked aircraft and more.  They were also trained in emergency response training, national security training, unarmed combat training, security awareness training, security drills and others.