Calls for establishment of a ministry of livestock resources From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja The National Conference on Livestock Reforms and Mitigation of Associated Conflicts has recommended the use of innovative and adaptable technologies grounded in scientific and indigenous people’s knowledge as solutions to mitigate the incessant farmer/herder clashes in the country. In a communique issued signed by the chairman, Attahiru Jega, the conference bankrolled by the Kano State government, equally advocated strengthening the role of traditional rulers and community leaders in managing the affairs of farmers and herders including the sustenance of inter-communal relations for effective management of disputes and conflicts. The Conference also requested for the establishment of a ministry of livestock resources or in the alternative, federal and state governments should expand the scope of existing departments of livestock production to address the broader needs of the industry. “There is the need to deploy innovative and adaptable technologies grounded in scientific and indigenous people’s knowledge, jointly designed and implemented with strong producers’ participation,” the conference suggested. Making more suggestions, the communique read; “Strengthen peace-building interventions at all levels among farmers and herders by adopting proactive early warning and early response mechanisms. It will also include the adoption of alternative dispute resolution and training of community leaders and other community gatekeepers on techniques of mediation. “Strengthen the role of traditional rulers and community leaders in managing the affairs of farmers and herders including the sustenance of inter-communal relations for effective management of disputes and conflicts. “Work out practical mechanisms for increased and viable private sector investments in the agricultural and pastoral production industry with a framework for strengthening backyards integration in the livestock value chains. “Establish the Ministry of Livestock Resources in line with practice in many other West African countries. In the alternative, federal and state governments should expand the scope of existing Departments of Livestock Production to address the broader needs of the industry. “There is the need to revisit and review sub-national, national and regional laws, legislations and politics so as to make appliable reforms for Improving Livestock production and addressing conflicts. “There is the need to strengthen and improve the security architecture for the prevention of violent crimes including cattle rustling, raiding of villages, kidnapping of persons for ransom and trade in illicit arms and drugs,” the conference suggested.