From Abel Leonard, Lafia Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Former Nigeria junior international, King Osanga (MON), and Chinedu Ohanachom were the heroes as Nasarawa United recorded their first win of the 2022/23 Nigeria Premier Football League Season, overpowering Kwara United in a North-Central derby decided at the New Jos International Stadium on Saturday. Despite dominating in most of their previous games this campaign, Coach Bala Nikyu’s charges were yet to pick up maximum points, with only a draw in six games. The Solid Miners went into Saturday’s clash with a different mentality after some morale-boosting incentives from the Nasarawa State Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development, Amb. Lucky Isaac Yargwa, and Chairman of the Club, Chief Barr. Isaac Danladi at the team’s dressing room. Midfielder, Joshua John forced a free-kick close to the box in the 9th minute of the first-half, with King Osanga scoring an early goal from the resultant kick after Joshua Ogbole laid the ball for him, his second goal of the season. Attacker, Chinedu Ohanachom, did his chances no harm with a strike after benefiting from a pass from in-form Chidera Nduka, nine minutes into the restart, to put the visitors to the swords and handed the 2021 Aiteo Federation Cup runners-up their maiden victory in the division. Like King Osanga, it was Ohanachom’s second goal of the season for the Solid Miners. United now have four points from seven games, and continue their quest for a positive turnaround. The team will be on the road for a mid-week tie against Bendel Insurance at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, Benin City, Edo State on 15th February, 2023, before wrapping up the first stanza of the league at home against visiting Remo Stars FC, four days later. Speaking shortly after the match, Bala Nikyu of Nasarawa united said “It’s never our wish to push the league to this extent before we start getting result, however, God’s time is the best. “It’s a good turnaround for us, and hopefully, God has opened the doors for us. “This win is a huge morale boost for us to work more. “At times, if results are not forthcoming, you wonder where the problems are coming from, and you begin to ask where you should start from. “Positive results cover a lot of things and we appreciate today’s outcome despite squandering lots of goal scoring chances. “Regarding the resignation of my colleague at Kwara United, Coach Azeez Muhammad, it’s quite unfortunate. “He is good Coach. But this job of ours is quite hazardous, and you have to stand strong for unforseen situations. “He did his best to get results for his team, but football is black and white. You can’t predict it. “I feel he was not comfortable with the results and so decided to step down. I wish him well in his future endeavour.”