From George Onyejiuwa,Owerri Some of the women who were mobilized from across the state  for the APC presidential rally held at the Dan Anyiam stadium in Owerri , the Imo state capital on Tuesday were seen lamenting after the event that they were left empty handed. One of the women who gave her name as Mrs Agatha who said she came from  Njaba local  government lamented that she had no money with which to transport herself back home as those who asked to come for rally have abandoned her  and the others after the presidential rally . She said ,  ” I don’t know how I am going to get back to Njaba ayouths were not giving any money as we were promised by those who brought us to Owerri for the  Tinubu rally . We were told that Tinubu will give us money as soon we attend the rally.  But after the rally they told us that there is no cash, and that the N5 ,000 they  promised to give us will be through transfer . they didn’t ask whether we have account number.  Adding , “my concern right now is how to get back home before it is night.” She lamented. Also, another woman who refused to identify herself  disclosed that what had happened today was the same when the  South East APC women held their rally at Hero’s Square late year .  She said that at that end of the rally that the women who were brought from the rural communities were abandoned and that most of them had to beg for money to enable them go back home . She lamented that it has become a tradition with some of the party coordinators at the rural communities . ” What happened today is the same thing that happened late year when the South East women held their rally at the Heroes square . Do you know that at the end of the rally we were abandoned by the coordinators who brought us to Owerri. The same thing has repeated again today and the excuse they are giving now, is that there is no cash”. Similarly, some of the youths who spoke with our correspondent said that they were disappointed as they have been earlier promised by the state government that those of them who had participated in the Skillup  training will be given Laptops during the presidential rally in which President Buhari will be in attendance . One of the youths who spoke on condition of anonymity said , ” Majority of the youths attended the Tinubu rally because we were told that those of us who participated in the Skillup training will receive their Laptops and certificates today at the rally in the presence  of  President Buhari but that did not happen “.