From Charity Nwakaudu, Abuja Ahead of the general elections, the Plateau State stakeholders for Peter Obi have donated over 100,000 sample of ballot papers and 10,000 posters of the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, for the sensitization of Nigerians. The group, represented by three of its members Chief JN, Garba, Dalen Kumswa and Chris Kedesh while presenting the materials at the Director General campaign office in Abuja, yesterday described Obi as a collective movement which must be achieved. They added that working for the party is a sacrifice as God has chosen Obi to deliver Nigeria from its present predicament. “We have been working hard to make sure that we create awareness of this mission. Peter Obi is a movement and mission. As members, we came together and decided to print these materials to be used to educate Nigerians on how to vote correctly. We are not just the only ones that will be going about the sensitization, that is why we printed over 100,000 samples of ballot papers and 10,000 posters. Obi is not about the party but a movement and a divine project to deliver Nigeria from where we find ourselves today. It is a movement to rescue this country from bad governance and corruption. Contributing to the Peter Obi movement is a delight. Obi is one of the persons that is called according to God’s purpose and victory is sure.” Responding, Mick Nwafor, Director of Administration, DG campaign office appreciated the group, saying Obi is a Nigerian project ” receiving these campaign materials means a lot of relief for us because over the weekend we moved a lot of materials across the country, by Saturday we felt we were exhausted, so to come to work today and meet this, is very encouraging. This is a Nigerian project and this is how materials come in every day and we are using them to penetrate all through the country. We are here today to tell Nigerians about the new Nigeria, we are telling Nigerians to be part of the team that would rescue the nation and Left up the country. The country is down everybody knows, he said