By Christopher Oji  The police  has assured Lagos residents of safty, saying  areas of threats on non-residents have been taken care of.  It also urged residents not to  entertain any fear as adquate security have been put in place for their safety.   Deputy Inspector-General Police in charge of Force Criminal Investigation and Intelligence  Department (FCIID) and Southwest Zone, Mr. Johnson Kokumo, gave the assurance at a press briefing   after a security meeting  with men and officers of the  Lagos State Command.  The DIG, who was responding to a question by a journalist on  a viral video, where some people were threatened in Lagos, should a particular political party loses the election, said all the areas noted for crisis or where threats may come from have been  taken care of. He said there would not be any loophole for trouble makers to operate as all areas would be well policed. Kokumo said more than 27,000 police personnel have been  deployed to Lagos for the elections, stressing that other sister security agencies would join in  providing security during and after the elections. He urged the police personnel to ensure that they abide by the Electoral Act rules, by ensuring that the election was free, fair and credible in all parts of the state. “We are supposed to be apolitical.We should not unlished terror on the members of the public. Don’t use arm on harmless members of the public. “We are to be civil, respect the rights of citizens. We are to collaborate with sister security agencies, but we are to take lead according to the Electoral Act,” he said. Kokumo said that the Inspector-General of Police  has ordered for  special deployment to man the    air, land ,and water, with collaboration with sister security agencies operating in those areas. He urged the command to set up a special electoral investigation team at the State  Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) where all cases and arrest relating to the elections would be treated immediately. He also urged the command to ensure that the border posts are  well policed with a view to prevent non-Nigerians incursion during the elections. Earlier,  Commissioner of police in Lagos command, CP Idowu Owohunwa, assured the DIG that the police in Lagos would  not disappoint the residents and the nation at large. “I assured you , DIG that we will not fail in Lagos as a command with God’s guardiance and commitment  of the men I have. We will not fail the nation. “We are  assuring the  people of  Lagos that we will not fail in our elections’ duties. We shall make the nation proud,” Owohunwa assured.