There’s an unfinished business or two that this column was to round off today. Somehow, that has to wait for another week or two. There’s a matter of urgent life importance that cannot and should not wait. Someone somewhere needs something special to remain alive and sane and hopeful. This is the something. By the way, please, don’t rush it. Rather, take a cup of something you cherish and grab a seat. Sssh, I mean a cup of coffee, or of tea, or of something close.  Speaking of which, please, in God’s name, let it not be cup of understanding -whatever that means. It always is best to take something you understand; something that understands you. It never is good to take something that causes self-misunderstanding. Like, you start walking in the air or you start seeing things double or people as ants. But, seriously, the foregoing is not a laughing matter. It is not good to drink anything that takes away understanding even if temporarily, just because we are thinking of forgetting our woes. Downing bottles upon bottles of understanding in order to forget our situation can -in the long run- cause fundamental misunderstanding with our organs and health and even life. We must permanently never toy with the little self-indulgent understanding that can breed a great system misunderstanding. Now, what’s your matter? That they humiliated you? Or that they connived against you? Or that they dealt treacherously with you? Are you depressed because of how things are panning out? Or, is it because you just found out a friend who once became an enemy and later friends again has all along been, at best, a frenemy? Or, is it your perpetual helpee refusing you (their helper) help the first and only time you ever sought it? Or, is it about your own people vehemently electing to not catch the clear vision that you represent and have presented to them many times over? Just what’s the matter with you that makes you want to give up? That your family members sided with the outsider who gave them chicken-change cash instead of you who promised an immediate healthy bank transfer? That those with you proved beyond every reasonable doubt they are not even with themselves? That things didn’t go the way you expected? Let’s together try to discharge the battery, one after the other. One, humiliation never happens except you allow it. Never forget that. No matter the quantum of humiliation flung at you, until you allow yourself to internalise or feel and show it, no humiliation is recorded against your name. So, quit allowing people to enjoy throwing mud at you. Instead, make them regret it by carrying on as if they threw sweets or at worst nothing. Because, indeed, they threw nothing. Stop biggifying small antics by little minds. See, those who work in connivance and treachery incorporated very soon come to you on bended knees if you never betray to them that all the nonsense they did or said or didn’t do or didn’t say against you had any effect whatsoever. That must be how and why the statement, if you can’t beat them join them, came into existence. Those who are considered unbeaten, unbeatable and, therefore, joinable are people who never betray the pains of beating. Learn to never voice how humiliated you feel, or how their connivance hurts your progress or how their treachery reduces your standing because the world has no reserved seats at the head table for the weak or loser. Two, stop falling into depression because of the way things are panning out. Things panning out means the process is on. It shall soon pan (out) your way. It is not over until you win, my dear. Furthermore, never forget that a friend who once became an enemy and later friends again has 99.99% potentiality of enmity in their heart. And, that helping someone for years is no guarantee they’d be there for you for even one day when you need them. Or, that your own people would easily align with your vision. The virtue called vision is not transmitted by blood! Three, always remember to never forget that giving up is not one of the choices available on your shelf. In the Bible, Joseph’s family commodifying and dispensing him to strangers did not stop his destiny. Rather, it accentuated and quickened it. The fact that people animalify their actions or that things go against the run of play does not mean that what shall be shall not be! Man is too small, too powerless, too poor in spirit to stop what had been ordained. Therefore, you, stop squandering your tenure on earth. Those moments you spend sad are wasted since you can never get them back. Be happy, no matter what.  Being happy beautifies your looks, improves your health and rejuvenates your life. On the other hand, sadness, being of the devil, exists only to steal, to destroy and to kill. Sadness steals your joy, destroys your health and kills your enthusiasm. Sad people are alive but deadly so; they are half-dead; they are here but not here!  Choose joy even if all that’s available at that time is sadness. Create your own joy, in the circumstance. You don’t have forever in this world. Don’t waste your little time left frowning, depressed, embittered. As I always say, stop excellencifying nonsense, stop nonsensifying excellence. Never bow to betrayal, blackmail, disappointment, humiliation, mockery, name them. And, even if you find yourself bowing, don’t communicate it. It is that communication that the devil is desperate for: ensure to never give it to him! Always hang on, always hold on, always hold out. Life compensates the last man standing, never the first or even last to quit. If the tide has ebbed against you, I tell you today and I lie not that all you need to emerge champion in the nick of time is fortitude and patience. Please, learn to wait and with a beautiful smile. The tide shall come in again, soon, for you; your sun rises again any moment now. Your mockers are about to lead your praise team. This is always the lot of them who stand strong and firm beyond what the enemy thinks is the end. No shaking, my friend. Rest assured that the whistle shall only go when you are on top, winning. Consequently, never be desperate even if you think time is running out. If for any reason you think you’ve become desperate though, never show it. Desperation in itself can be a virtue but showing it is a vice, through and through. In addition, never lose faith. It is all you have. Faith is the oil that lubricates and sustains life. They who have faith have everything. Finally, however, it is imperative to look at the other side of this double-edged sword. If you are or have been the bad person alluded to in the entirety of this piece (an enemy, a blackmailer, a mocker, a traitor, an ingrate, etc.) today is the day set aside by nature for you to say never again. Discontinue now, and henceforth and forever the glorification of evil. The age of darkness is over: light is come -for eternity. God bless Nigeria!