From Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri The Labour Party(LP) House of Representative candidate for Okigwe North constituency in Imo State, Chikwem Onuoha has expressed fear that the current insecurity situation in the State may lead to voters apathy in some parts of the State. Onuoha who disclosed this during his endorsement and other candidates seeking elective positions in the State and National assembly elections by a group known as the Save Imo pointed out that his constituency is the most affected. He further said that his constituency had a similar security problem during the collection of PVCs as the exercise he said run into hitches as gunmen disrupted the process. Onuoha has appealed to the State governor,Hope Uzodimma to ensure adequate security personnel are deployed to the troubled areas. Meanwhile,the group has also endorsed the presidential candidate of the Labour Party,(LP) Peter Obi ahead of his All Progressive Congress (APC) Bola Tinubu and Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) Alhaji Atiku Abubakar rivals. Others also endorsed are, Osita Izunaso(APC) for Imo West,Alex Mbata(APC) for Imo East, and Ifeanyi Araraume(junior) (LP)for Imo North senatorial districts. For the House of representatives election,the group endorsed Chukwugozie Nwachukwu of the (APC) for Orlu,Orsu and Oru East,Chike Okafor(APC) for Okigwe South,Eugene Dibiagwu(APC) for Ohaji,Oguta and Oru West,Paschal Obi(LP) for Ideato North and South federal constituencies. Explaining the choice of Obi and others endorsed, the convener,Save Imo, Chief Ebubeagu Ekenulo said “No doubt Obi through his wide acceptability has shown that his candidacy is divine and seen as only person that take Nigeria out of its present bondage. ” All other candidates were chosen based on merit,they’re all people of integrity and impeccable character, all we’re interested in who will deliver the dividends of democracy to their people”. Ekenulo said. Same vein,the candidates who attended the town hall meeting organised by the Catholic archdiocese of Owerri has signed a peace accord assuring to play by the rules during the election and shun violence. Most Reverend Moses Chikwe,Auxiliary archbishop of Owerri explaining the reason of the meeting said it is aimed at advocating for good governance in the State by allowing the electorates to have informed decisions on who to cast their votes for. The town hall meeting which had earlier hosted the State assembly candidates is organised by the Justice Development ,Peace and Caritas Commission(JDPC) ,directed by Reverend Gerald Njoku and monitored by the Representatives of the European Union(EU), Lena Ohre and Arnault Brauisiau Solovic.