From Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Former South African President, Thabo Mbeki, yesterday, led other members of the Commonwealth Observer Group to Nigeria to observe the elections. At a press conference in Abuja, Mbeki called on the political parties, candidates and their supporters to play their part in ensuring peaceful, transparent and credible elections in the country.  “This month’s elections will be Africa’s largest democratic exercise. The outcomes of the elections will be significant not only for Nigeria, but also for the entire continent. Therefore, we urge all stakeholders in Nigeria to uphold their commitment to ensure a peaceful and inclusive election in which the people of Nigeria are able to freely exercise their right to vote, with the fundamental freedoms of expression, association and assembly fully respected. “Our mandate is to observe and assess the pre-election period, activities on polling day and the post-election period. Throughout, we will consider all factors relating to the credibility of the electoral process. We will assess whether the elections are conducted according to the standards for democratic elections to which Nigeria has committed itself. As we undertake this assessment and conduct our duties, we will be objective, independent and impartial.” Mbeki, who described Nigeria as Africa’s largest democracy and valued member of the Commonwealth noted that the Commonwealth has a long tradition of supporting the country’s democratic development through election observation. He stated that the election would be the seventh time a Commonwealth Observer Group will be observing elections in Nigeria, since 1999. Mbeki added that the Commonwealth would deploy its observers to different parts of the country, to observe the campaigning, voting, counting and results process, having taken into account the need to receive briefings from relevant stakeholders, including representatives of political parties, the government, independent institutions, Commonwealth high commissioners and various civil society organisations, including groups representing gender, youth and people with disabilities. “Among other aspects, we will consider whether the conditions exist for credible elections; and whether the voting process is transparent and inclusive. “The Commonwealth Observer Group has no executive role; our function is not to supervise but to observe the process as a whole and to form a judgment accordingly. We are here in our individual capacities as eminent and experienced Commonwealth citizens. As such, our assessment will be our own and not that of any Commonwealth member government or organisation. “Following election day, we will deliver an interim statement, which provides our group’s preliminary assessment of the electoral process, at a press conference on 27 February in Abuja. More details of the press conference will be shared by the staff team supporting the Observer Group in due course. “Upon completion of our assignment, we will submit our recommendations in a report to the Commonwealth Secretary-General, who will forward it to the Government of Nigeria, the country’s Independent National Electoral Commission, the leadership of political parties taking part in the elections, and then to all Commonwealth governments. The report will be made public afterwards. “When we make our observations known, our intent is to offer constructive support to help strengthen the democratic culture, processes and institutions in Nigeria. In doing so, the Commonwealth Observer Group will make recommendations to the authorities concerned on institutional, procedural and other matters as would assist the holding of such elections in future,” Mbeki also said.