• We’re keeping close eye on elections – ECOWAS From Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja The United States of America has expressed support for peaceful and transparent elections in Nigeria. Its president, Joe Biden, who made the declaration in a statement, yesterday, also commended all the presidential candidates for signing a peace accord to accept the results of the election. He said by signing the pledge, the parties and candidates have committed to accepting the results of the election as announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and to support a peaceful transition of power. He encouraged Nigerians to go out and exercise their right to vote as the country prepares for a general election “Elections are a fundamental part of a functioning democracy, and all Nigerians deserve this chance to choose their future — freely and fairly. “While the United States does not support any single candidate or party, we strongly support a peaceful and transparent process that reflects the will of the people of Nigeria. “On election day, I encourage all Nigerians — no matter their religion, region, or ethnicity — to exercise this fundamental freedom and make their voices heard — including young voters, many of whom may be heading to the ballot box for the first time. “The United States stands with the Nigerian people as they chart a path toward a more democratic, prosperous, and secure future. “I appreciate President Buhari’s firm commitment that the will of the people will be respected. Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “And in the coming days, I encourage voters to remain peaceful and patient as their ballots are tallied, and urge the political parties and candidates to live up to their pledge.”  Meanwhile, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), has said it is keeping close eyes to the general elections. Leader of the ECOWAS Election Observation Mission to Nigeria and former President of Sierra Leone, Ernest Bai Koroma, stated this during a briefing with ECOWAS observers in Abuja. He told the observers that Nigeria is preparing to hold historic presidential elections within political and security contexts characterised by several contestations among the political stakeholders, an environment of heightened insecurity, and ongoing economic woes exacerbated by the Naira redesign policy. Koroma added that taking cognizance of all the issues, the mandate given to the observers was not easy, especially at a period when the ECOWAS sub-region is being put to the serious test on governance issues. “Our presence in Nigeria is, therefore, more than significant. it is first and foremost a legal obligation in applying the provisions of the Protocol on Democracy and Good Governance. Our role is to observe whether the conduct, organization, and holding of the 25th February, 2023 presidential elections comply with the standards set out in the above-mentioned Protocol. “I urge you to take the right measure of our mission. The briefings that you will receive shortly will enable you to understand more fully the message that I am trying to share with you. “The elections that will take place in the next two days are crucial, not only for the brotherly people of Nigeria, but for the entire ECOWAS sub-region. The campaign process has been carried out without much incident. However, the forthcoming phases, namely voting, counting, and the proclamation of results, are the most decisive. What will happen on 25th February, 2023 is of the utmost importance for the Nigerian citizens, but also for all of us West African citizens. “For that reason, the ECOWAS authorities are keeping a very close eye on these elections. They call for the highest sense of responsibility from all stakeholders involved in these elections, starting with the political parties, the State authorities, the civil society stakeholders, and the entire citizens,” Koroma said. Koroma further said it was essential that the spirit of peace and harmony be preserved until the finalization of the process and even beyond. “In this respect, our neutral viewpoint is precious because we will be the eyes and ears of our entire community. Our professionalism and the exemplary conduct of our mission is highly anticipated. In carrying out this mandate, you will not be alone. You will benefit from the support of the security services, especially the police, the local government authorities, and the relays of civil society organisations. “I am pleased to indicate that based on the preliminary consultations that I have had so far, I have received assurance that the elections will be well conducted,” Koroma also said. Koroma further said the job of the observers will be to ensure that the electoral process is truly transparent, free, and credible. “I hope that the verdict of the ballot boxes will be received in accordance with the ECOWAS principle which recommends that the results be accepted and that any disagreement if there would be any, be settled before the competent jurisdictions. “In fact, the ideal would be for dialogue to prevail over judicial settlement, in the spirit of the ECOWAS Conflict Prevention Framework (CPCC) which in its Article 53 (i), provides that “‘Member States shall encourage the establishment of permanent platforms that bring together electoral management bodies, political parties, security services, the media, and civil society for the exchange of views, the elaboration of electoral codes of conduct and modalities for the peaceful resolution of disagreements related to elections,’” Koroma further said. In his remarks, the President of the ECOWAS Commission,  Omar Touray, acknowledged the importance of Nigeria to West Africa.