• 5 feared killed, banks, ATMs, PoS, political parties’ billboard vandalised  From Godwin Tsa, Abuja, Joseph Obukata, Warri, Layi Olanrewaju, Ilorin and Paul Osuyi, Asaba  At least, five persons were feared dead while several banks, automated teller machines (ATMs) terminals, PoS and political parties’ billboard were either torched or vandalized, yesterday, as irate youths protested shortage of new Naira notes and their inability to transact business with the old currencies. This came as the Supreme Court said the old naira notes remain legal tender as its February 8 order barring the Federal Government and its agencies from enforcing the February 10 deadline subsist. The court made the clarification following complaint by lawyer to Kaduna, Kogi and Zamfara states, Abdulhakeem Mustapha, that the Federal Government and its agencies had failed to comply with the order and have allegedly directed the rejection of the old notes. The apex court had granted an ex parte application suspending the implementation of the February 10 deadline fixed by the CBN to end the legal tender status of the old N200, N500, and N1,000 notes. Mustapha said the plaintiff filed a notice of non-compliance with the order of the court order made on February 8 and demanded that the court take action against the respondent to protect the dignity of the court. “That order has been flouted by the government. We are talking of executive lawlessness here. We have filed an affidavit to that effect…We want the court to renew the order for parties to be properly guided,” he declared. Justice John Okoro, who presided over a seven-member panel of the apex court, asked Mustapha to file a proper application to put forward his complaints and to enable the respondent respond appropriately. Justice Okoro said there was no need for a renewal of the order as the panel which had Justices Amina Augie, Adamu Jauro, Ibrahim Saulawa, Tijani Abubakar and Emmanuel Agim adjourned to February 22. However, in major cities including Ibadan, Warri, Otukpo, Lagos and Ilorin, angry residents set bonfires on major roads and attacked banks. In Benin, no fewer than four persons were reportedly killed while a branch of Access Bank was set on fire. The protesters had blocked the Ring Road and the adjoining streets in the city centre, causing traffic gridlock in the process. They hauled missiles at the First Bank at the Ring Road, even as several commercial banks, including a branch of Guaranty Trust Bank (GTB) in Uselu were attacked. Shop owners and other businesses hurriedly shut down, as motorists adorned their vehicles with green leaves as a mark of solidarity with the protesters.  It took the intervention of military personnel to save the situation. But the protesters, despite the presence of the security personnel, regrouped and became more violent, leading to the shootings around the Central Bank (CBN) branch as the mob allegedly attempted to force their way into the premises.  When contacted, the Public Relations Officer of the Edo State Police Command, SP Chidi Nwabuzor, said it was too premature for him to speak on the casualty figure.  Like Benin City, an orgy of violence broke out in Udu, near Warri, commercial hub of Delta State, and later spread to Enerhen Junction, Uvwie council area which host several new generation banks just as one person reportedly died. The rampaging youths destroyed automated teller machines of banks in the area. At the ever-busy Orhuwhorum junction which has a branch of Access Bank and Union Bank, protesters set bonfire to prevent vehicular movement thus causing tension and chaos. Billboards of both the APC and the PDP politicians at the Orhuwhorum and Express Junctions were destroyed.  Bank workers and those who were in the banks for transactions fled the scene even as schools shut down as parents hurried to pick their children and wards before closing time. •Obaseki orders Oshiomhole’s arrest  Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki, has ordered the swift arrest of former governor,  Adams Oshiomhole, for mobilising thugs to vandalise banks and disrupt the peace of the state under the guise of protesting the new naira scarcity. This was contained in a statement by the Commissioner for Communication and Orientation, Chris Nehikhare.  “We have been around the city all day, speaking with some of the protesters and we have done our investigations. We discovered that it is more than meets the eye. At this juncture, we will like to call on security agencies to call Adams Oshiomhole for questioning. He should be arrested and made to account for his movement in the last few days especially here in Benin City. Oshiomhole deliberately instigated the protest of the people. I know people will think the protest is as a result of lack of naira notes but even if that is the case, Nigerians should know which political party is involved because it is ironic the political party that is responsible for this policy is the same party sending people to destroy PDP billboards,” the governor said. •Protest rocks Ilorin  Some residents of Gambari, Zango, Eleko Poly gate, Ogidi in Ilorin, Kwara State, also trooped out in protest and barricaded roads with burning tires to register their displeasure.  One of the protesters, Lukman Saheed, said the hardship being faced by Nigerians was alarming. “We are protesting to send a message to the government that we the masses are suffering,” he said.  The state Police command, in a statement by the Police Public Relations Officer, Okasanmi Ajayi, advised parents and guidance to warn their children or wards to avoid being used as canon-folders by disgruntled political activists, as anyone arrested in the process of committing any crime, either as a result of the fuel or Naira challenges, would be made to face the consequences of such actions alone. •Commuters stranded in Ibadan, Makinde cautions In Ibadan, Oyo State, commuters were stranded, as commercial drivers,  motorcyclists and tricyclists refused to accept old naira notes. The situation forced some commuters to trek long distances to their respective destinations while those who could not trek returned home. The roads in some areas within the metropolis like Omi-Adio, Apata, Challenge and Mokola roundabout were deserted, as only few commercial drivers collected the old naira notes. The situation was further compounded by the protests that rocked some parts of the state capital over scarcity of fuel and new naira notes. Meanwhile, Governor Seyi Makinde has appealed to protesting residents to be wary of hoodlums who might hijack the protests and cause breakdown of peace and order. In a statement by Taiwo Adisa, his Chief Press Secretary, the governor made the plea, while addressing residents of the state from Igbojaye, Itesiwaju Local Government, where he was rounding up a three-day stretch of campaigning in the four local governments in Iseyin Federal Constituency. He also urged them to demonstrate restraints over the biting hardship occasioned by the new naira redesign policy. •Reverse policy now, Akeredolu tells Buhari, CBN  Ondo State Governor, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, urged President Buhari to direct Emefiele to reverse the policy with immediate effect.  The governor, who  spoke in Akure, when he received members of the youths directorate of the All Progressive Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) led by Mr. Seyi Tinubu, son of  APC presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, faulted the timing of the policy, stating that it was ill-timed, adding that the problem created by the naira and fuel scarcity have affected the ratings of the APC.  •Supreme Court joins 9 other states Meanwhile, the apex court has joined nine states as parties in the suit that was originally filed by Kaduna, Kogi and Zamfara challenging the propriety of the monitization policy of the Federal Government. The original plaintiffs had lamented the hardship their citizens were grappling with as a result of the naira redesign policy.  The new states admitted to the legal dispute are  Bayelsa, Cross Rivers, Edo, Ekiti, Lagos, Ogun, Ondo, Katsina and Sokoto states respectively. While Bayelsa and Edo states where joined as co-defendants, Ekiti, Cross Rivers, Lagos, Ogun, Katsina and Sokoto were joined as co- plaintiffs. •Abia joins suit  Governor Okezie Victor Ikpeazu has directed the Attorney General of Abia State, Chief  Uche Ihediwa, to immediately put into effect, all  necessary legal processes needed for the to be joined in the suit seeking to ensure that the cash swap policy is implemented in such a way that it would not continue to threaten the peace and economic well-being of Abians and Nigerian Citizens in general.  “It must be noted that the welfare of Abia citizens everywhere remains the cardinal principle of the Rebuilder of Abia State,  Dr Okezie Victor Ikpeazu.  Therefore, his decision to have Abia State joined  as one of the states challenging  this  anti-people policy in the ongoing legal action at the Supreme Court is as  a result of the untold hardship being experienced by Abia citizens due to the unavailability of naira notes,” a statement released last night said. Their motions for joinder was moved by their respective counsel as follows: Damien Dodo (Bayelsa State); Moyosore Onigbanjo (Lagos State); Kenneth Moviah, (Edo State); S. T. Ogunorisa, (Katsina State);  Tanko Ashang (Cross Rivers); Tunde Afebabalola, (Ogun State); O.O Olowolafe (Ekiti State) among others. While M. I. Mustapha, appeared for the original plaintiffs, a former Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice , AGF, Godwin Agabi, appeared for the sitting AGF.  Meanwhile, the apex court has ordered the original plaintiffs and respondents – the Attorney General of the Federation to amend the processes already filed to reflect the new parties. While the plaintiffs have between now and February 15 to file and exchange their processes, the respondents have till February 17 to complete same task.