From Scholastica Onyeka, Makurdi Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Moved by the need to upgrade some feeders in Benue state to higher bands to increase electricity supply to the customers, Jos Electricity Distribution Plc has carried out a sensitization of customers in Makurdi. A statement signed by the Head, Corporate Communications, Dr Friday Adakole Elijah, said the customers were drawn from feeders in Otukpo, Gboko and Makurdi, the Benue state capital. Speaking at the event, the Managing Director, Engr Abdu Mohammed explained to the customers that the sensitization exercise was meant to conscientize customers on the implications of migrating them to a higher band.  Mohammed, who was represented by the Regional Manager, Makurdi Region, Mr Joseph Terfa Kwaghgba, said “to whom much is given, much is expected”. “We invited you here to inform you that we have upgraded your feeders to higher bands because we want you to enjoy an almost uninterrupted power supply but let it be known that your tariff will change to the current reality. Your monthly energy charge will now be more than what you were paying before”. He explained that to support the upgrade, Management invested billions of naira in solidifying the company’s network stressing that, “our staff are readily on the ground to expeditiously attend to faults. We want to serve you in such a manner that will gladden your hearts. Our customers are our kings and we, therefore, crave to serve you to your satisfaction”. To familiarise customers with the upgraded bands, the Head of Customers Care, Mr Lucky Akpobi who displayed all the newly upgraded feeders with their new tariffs urged the customers also endeavour to pay for your consumed energy as at when due saying that energy is not free. In his presentation, the Chief Security Officer of the company, Mallam Musa Abdullahi who decried the high spate of vandalism on the company’s network called on the customers to take ownership of electricity installations in their domains.  Abdullahi explained that apart from the negation of security of the community whose transformers or other installations were vandalized, the economic and social activities will be dislocated as the affected communities would find themselves in a state of quandary.  To halt the tide, the Chief Security Officer, therefore, urged customers to help protect electricity facilities in their various localities. “Please, if you see any suspicious movement around our transformers, ask questions and if you are not satisfied with the answers given, report the matter to the security agents as quickly as possible. “, he urged the customers. The Regional Manager, Otukpo, Engr Olaniyi Ogumakinwa advised customers to take advantage of the current Meters Asset Providers to get themselves metered to avoid disputation on energy billing especially now that electricity supply was going to be higher than what it used to be.   The Head of Safety, Mr Alvinmax Cyprain Yenkwo on his part admonished customers to be safety conscious as according to him, “Electricity is a  very friendly but dangerous commodity”.  He took the customers through the various safety tips and what to do in case of an emergency. In their separate remarks, a Director in the office of the Head of Service, Benue State, Mr Elijah Dogo, and Alhaji Tanimu of the Judges Quarters amongst others all commended Jos Disco for regular and steady power supply in Benue State.