As part of his plan to engender a holistic development of Abia, the governorship candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), Ikechi Emenike, has promised to set up industrial clusters in all the 17 local governments of the state. He made the promise, yesterday, at the commencement of his council campaign rallies after observing a week-long break in  campaigns in honour of the late governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Uche Ikonne. The APC governorship candidate was welcomed by a huge crowd of party supporters amidst booming cannons as he entered Ndioru Central School, Oboro Ikwuano venue of the rally. “Ikwuano is an agricultural belt of the South East zone and we are going to add value to your farm produce by setting up processing factories that would create jobs and improve your livelihoods,” he said. He encouraged Ikwuano people to cast their votes for APC and reap the rewards of good governance, adding that nobody should entertain any fear that their views would not count as obtained in the past. “We’re asking everybody to believe in APC, work for APC and vote for APC to make Abia better,” he said, adding, “when the victory comes it will be for the good of Ndi Abia.” APC National Vice Chairman, South East, Ijioma Arodiogbu, said the party has found in Emenike the best governorship candidate that can transform Abia. He said: “It is very important to us (APC) because we need to change the narrative in God’s own state,” adding that Emenike is primed to bring the real change that Abia has been lacking. APC chieftains from Ikwuano all drummed up support for the candidates of the party at all levels, saying: “Ikwuano land is totally for APC,” as had been demonstrated in previous general election.  Minister of State for Science, Technology and Innovation, Henry Ikoh, said Abia APC has gotten a formidable governorship candidate who will rebuild Abia, adding that “Ikwuano will continue to support and vote for APC 100 per cent.” Former House of Representatives member, Emeka Atuma, said the people of Ikwuano have chosen to identify with APC because every development project in the area was courtesy of the party at the centre. He lamented the “total neglect and marginalisation” of Ikwuano by the PDP-led administration of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, insisting that not even a kilometre of road in Ikwuano has been tarred even though the council falls within the Umuahia capital territory.  “Ikwuano will see development; Ikwuano will see the impact of good governance when Emenike becomes the governor of Abia State,” he said. Earlier, Chairman of Abia APC, Kingsley Ononogbu, said the general election has promised a very good opportunity for Abians to bring the change they have been yearning for. “This is our chance, this is our opportunity to rewrite the sad story of Abia,” he said, adding that APC has put forward Emenike to drive the needed change in Abia.