From Ogbonnaya Ndukwe, Aba Anglican Archbishop of the Ecclesiastical Province of Aba, Most Rev. Isaac Nwaobia, has challenged Nigerians, to be kind to one another across ethnic barriers, as a tool for cushioning the sufferings and hardships, they are currently experiencing.  Nwaobia, who is also the bishop of Isiala Ngwa South, and Board of Trustees (BoT) member of Alaigbo Development Foundation (ADF), said this at the launching of a book: “Enlightening the Dark Minds,” at the St Michael’s Cathedral, Aba. He stated that there was large scale suffering that had hurt the world. He was however, optimistic that people with human kindness, could heal the wounds inflicted by the menace: “As much as I’m alive, I will continue to do good irrespective of ethnic group one comes from, your class or colour. “So, I want to encourage all of us to continue to do good. Seek to liberate humanity from one community to the other through kindness. You never can tell how a token you gave out there, to a beggar, can go so long a way, to putting the person in a better position.” The prelate said that having gone through the book, he could see the light of the gospel of Jesus Christ, coming through it to the whole world, with regeneration. Book reviewer, Aliyu Abdullahi Egene, a legal practitioner, described it as one of the tools filled with the truths which God wants to use, to deliver mankind from the world of darkness: “The Dark Minds, refers to people who currently need to be brought out of the ignorance of living in the world of darkness, so that they can understand the reality of time and the situation around them.” A Professor of Management Sciences, Charles Chinekezi, commended the author of the book, Chukwuemeka Mba, for using it to further extend the frontiers of the gospel of Jesus Christ, with much to do towards developing the world. The award of “Worthy Clergyman and Patriot,” was conferred on Archbishop Nwaobia by the Coalition of Social Rights Defenders (COSORD), at the event.