From Felix Ikem, Nsukka Prof. Charles Igwe, the Vice Chancellor of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, (UNN) has warned newly admitted students of the institution to shun cultism, cyber crime, exams malpractices, and other social vices or face expulsion. Igwe gave the warning in Nsukka on Saturday during the 48th matriculation ceremony of the university, where 9,000 students were matriculated for the 2022/2023 academic session. He said that the university had zero tolerance for examination malpractice, cultism, and other social vices, stressing that his administration would not hesitate to sanction any student that is found guilty of such offenses.  “As a warning, UNN has a policy of zero tolerance for cultism. Therefore, any student caught indulging in secret cult activities would be expelled and handed over to the police for prosecution.  “As a university that places merit above all other considerations, there is also no place for cheating and examination malpractices at the University of Nigeria. “It is also important that I advise you all to desist from other forms of crime. Cybercrime also known as Yahoo- Yahoo is common amongst students and it is worthy of mention at this point. “May I also advise you to desist from gambling and the abuse of drugs. As you may know, many young people have lost their lives while many more have developed a variety of mental illnesses because of illicit drug use,” he said. Speaking further, the VC noted that the university had several policies that supported and protected students from exploitation, harassment, and other forms of abuse from staff or fellow students. “My administration will continue to implement these policies to ensure that our students study in a free and civilised environment. “Students are, therefore, encouraged to report any form of exploitation or harassment to the appropriate authorities, especially to the Dean of Student Affairs for immediate action,” he said. Some of the matriculating students in an interview with Sunday Sun expressed their happiness at gaining admission into the university, promising that they would make their parents and guardians proud by graduating with good results. Chibuike Ugwu, Department of Political Science said he would ever remain grateful to God who made it possible for him to gain administration in UNN. “I thank God who made it possible for me to gain administration this year. I also thank my parents for investing in my education and promise to make them proud by graduating with first class,” Ugwu said.