From Joseph Obukata, Warri Nigerian youths leaders under the auspices of the Youth Awake Now (YAN), has announced their plans to adopt one presidential candidate who they said will fit in the wishes and aspirations of the Nigerian people, especially the low income earners.  This was contained in a statement issued in Warri on Sunday, saying that they will present a charter of demand to the preferred candidate to strike a social contract with the person on behalf of Nigerian youths. YAN is made up of youth leaders drawn  from Arewa Consultative Forum, Afenifere, Ohaneze-Ndigbo, Ijaw Youth Leaders, National Association of Nigerian Students amongst others. The statement signed by its spokesman, Pereotubo Roland Oweilaemi (Eqs.), on behalf of the Executive Chairman of the Group, Dr. Festus Ochenna, urged Nigerian youths who constitutes about 50% of the voting population to critically assess the candidates vying to rule the country before casting their votes. The group charged Nigerian youths to take their destinies in their hands in the forthcoming elections, especially the presidential election which slated for February 25th 2023. The statement read: “as Nigerians are facing the worst political attrition ever experienced since independent, the general elections coming up this month have presented a glaring opportunity for the teaming youths of the Country to right the wrongs Nigerians have committed in the past. “Just as the Nigerian youths constitute the majority of the voting population in the country, we are at the receiving end of mis-governance by successive leaders in position of authority. “They said evil prevails when good men say nothing. The youths must come out in our larger voting populace to effect a regime change that will be beneficial to the entire nation. Like the saying that the youth are the leaders of tomorrow, this election is our chance for us to prepare the ground for our tomorrow leadership. “There may be no country for us to take the mantle of leadership in our time if we allow the privileged few to continue to plunder the land and or ruin the future of Nigeria. The 2023 Presidential election should be a political battle of the ballots between the Nigerian youths and the bad leaders in the Country. “The youth should rise to the occasion to exercise our sovereign power provided in the Nigerian Constitution. The battle is not going to be fought by the bullets but by our voters cards. YAN therefore appeals to every youth who registered to vote to collect their Permanent Voters Cards (PVC) at the appointed time. Our powers lie in the PVCs.  “On our part, YAN is making frantic efforts to screen the leading presidential candidates in order to adopt one of them who will fit in the wishes and aspirations of the Nigerian people, especially the low income earners. YAN will present a charter of demand to our preferred candidate to strike a social contract with the person. “2023 will not be business as usual. Nigerian youths have resolved to exercise our franchise without let or hindrance to enthrone a pan Nigerian agenda. Enough is enough”, the statement warned.