From Layi Olanrewaju, Ilorin The Media Office of Dr Bukola Saraki has described as “thoughtless, unintelligent, and incoherent” a negative claim credited to the Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara State, Tajudeen Aro Folaranmi, targeting the former Senate President. According to a statement signed by the Press Officer on Local Matters, Abubakar Bukola Saraki Media Office, Ilorin, Abdulganiyu Abdulqadir, and made available to reporters on Thursday, “the attention of the Media Office of Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki has been drawn to a statement by one Tajudeen Aro Folaranmi who is said to be the State Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara State, in which he sought to blame the former Senate President for the policies of his party, the APC, which are inflicting poverty, suffering and acute inconvenience on the generality of our people. “While the best response to such a thoughtless, unintelligent, and incoherent claim would have been to ignore it, we believe it is better to put it on record that only a party like the APC will make such a reckless, baseless and illogical attempt to blame the policies of its government on a man who for the past 45 months has been out of government and not holding any public office. “The question people should ask the APC revisionists and hagiographers is that in what capacity did Saraki initiate or contribute to the policy of changing currency notes and not putting a proper plan in place to execute the policy? Also, how did Saraki who has been shouting about the unprecedented rate of crude oil theft and the inflation of the figures of the litres of petrol consumed locally contribute to the fuel scarcity crisis in the country? “Nigerians have overrated the APC and the level of intelligence of its officials, particularly the ones in Kwara State. They could not even argue any point successfully based on logic and fact. “Dr Saraki has criticized those who for selfish reasons are opposed to the change of currency because it will make nonsense of their plans to buy votes, corrupt the democratic system, and impoverish the people. He has said that if people who are keeping government money at home to buy votes had used the money to execute development projects, the country would have been better and the standard of living of the people would have improved. “APC leaders sabotaged the policies of their government for selfish reasons. If the APC leaders had exerted the energy, time, resources, and strategies they have deployed to fight the change of currency notes on fighting insecurity, improving the economy, thinking about how to create jobs for the masses, and solving issues militating against the seamless supply of fuel, Nigerians would have been enjoying and the country will be a better place. “For APC leaders, their ingenuity and skill came on display when they needed to fight and obstruct their party’s policy which seeks to stop vote buying and enthrone a regime of free, fair, credible, and peaceful polls. This has been the crux of Dr Saraki’s statements at all times. It has not changed. He has also canvassed that it is not the culture of Nigerians to reward or tolerate failure. Therefore, since the APC administration has failed on all fronts and made life unbearable for the people, voters across the country should use their PVCs to vote against all APC candidates on February 25 and March 11, 2023, when they go to the polls. “The day of reckoning is here against those who flagrantly abused the trust of the people as well as those who made lofty promises but delivered pain to the people,” the statement read.