Garrison Commander 6 Division, Nigerian Army, Port Harcourt, Suileiman Tilawan, has commended the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) for co-operating with security agencies working in the Niger Delta region. Speaking when he led a delegation from the 6 Division, on a visit to the NDDC Managing Director, Samuel Ogbuku, in Port Harcourt, Tilawan said they needed closer ties with the interventionist agency. He lauded the NDDC for its timely interventions in the operational areas of the 6 Division, stating: “We are here to appreciate what the NDDC has done for us. The NDDC has done well for the Nigerian Army 6 Division by executing some infrastructural projects.”  The garrison commander urged the NDDC management to continue to support the security forces in the region, saying: “I particularly appreciate what the commission has done for us at the Bori Camp.”  He promised to sustain the cordial relationship between the army and the commission, adding: “We will do our best to maintain this mutually beneficial relationship.” Responding, Ogbuku said the commission and the Nigerian Army had a long history of collaboration which made a positive difference in the lives of the people of Niger Delta region. He said: “The collaboration between the NDDC and the Nigerian Army is very important because ensuring security in the Niger Delta is part of the mandate of the commission. We have partnered the security agencies through the provision of security apparatus.” Ogbuku said since development could only take place in a safe and peaceful environment, the commission would never take security issues for granted.  “Apart from our core mandate of fast-tracking the development of the Niger Delta region, we also have a responsibility to ensure the people of the region live in peace,” he said.   Ogbuku commended the efforts of the Nigerian Army in ensuring the Niger Delta region remained peaceful and conducive for Niger Deltans to live their lives and conduct their businesses peacefully.