• As Oyo guber candidate lauds group’s support for Tinubu Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. By Bolaji Okunola  Emir of Akko emirate council in Gombe State, Umar Muhammad Atiku, has endorsed former lawmaker, Khamisu Ahmed Mailantarki, ahead the state gubernatorial election.  Mailantarki, the standard-bearer of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), was endorsed during his wife, Samira Khamisu, courtesy visit to the traditional ruler.  Speaking on the occasion, the emir thanked Samira for her kind gesture. He further stated his consistency won’t relent in its bid to support Mailantarki.  “I’m happy to welcome you all. It’s been a while we welcome such a wonderful guest and I urge everyone to keep showing her support in all her endeavours.  “I can assure you, Akko community is strongly behind Samira and her husband and I wish them well in the forthcoming election,” he said.  Responding, Samira disclosed her husband will improve the welfare of indigenes if elected.  “My husband will surely improve the welfare of citizens if elected. He has what it takes to be the incoming governor of Gombe State and I believe he will make the state a place to be if elected,” she said. While leaving the palace, Samira and her entourage  donated items worth millions of naira to women in Akko Local Government Area of the state.  In the same vain, Oyo State gubernatorial candidate, on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), Teslim Folarin, has commended the contributions of social-political group, Forward Looking Elites (FLE), towards the presidential aspiration of Bola Tinubu. Folarin, a former Senate leader spoke in Ibadan, the state capital on Sunday, when receiving members of the group who donated campaign materials capable of inspiring his ambition and that of Tinubu/Shettima presidential project. Having donated billboards, mobile vehicular flagpoles, banners, posters, stickers, and customised shirts, he applauded the group for identifying with the party.  “This is a well commendable support you have done for our presidential and governorship projects. This is massive and I really appreciate it and I will forever cherish it,” he said. Reacting to this appraisal, group leader, Owolabi Kolade, said his team won’t relent in drumming support for the duo. He said the candidates have all it takes to run a government of peace, unity and prosperity.  “After our careful analytical appraisal of these candidates, both at the national and state levels, we are able to find a silver lining that it can only get better with these new nation’s handlers if they are voted into power as we have unequivocally aligned with for supports by Nigerians and Oyo State electorate,” Kolade said.