Describes interrogation at DSS as thorough, an experience he won’t wish on an enemy Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja Former Minister of Aviation Femi Fani-Kayode has said he was only goofing and not circumspect in his utterances in accusing the presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, of meeting secretly with army generals. Kayode described his experience in the hands of the Department of State Service (DSS) personnel during his interrogation as very thorough and an experience he never wished his enemy to go through. Speaking at a press conference at the national headquarters of the ruling party, he said that he will urge the former Vice President to submit himself for interrogation over fraud allegations against him. The Director of Special Projects and New media of the Tinubu/Shettima Presidential Campaign Council, also admitted that he was thoroughly grilled when he appeared before the DSS interrogators. Fani-Kayode soberly noted that his appearance and interrogation by the DSS were one of his worst experiences, even as he noted that they were polite, professional and unbiased in grilling him. “I have nothing to hide. And though it was very difficult. I have been interrogated by many security agencies, the police, and EFCC in the last 15 years, I have been incarcerated, I have been in and out of detention also, and I have seen all sorts, but let me tell you, the place anybody doesn’t really want to go, I would suggest is probably the DSS. It is a very, very challenging place to have to go. But, I thank God that it went well,” the ex-minister said. “And let me say this, I would have been more circumspect in handling this issue, especially as it bothers on national security,” he said.Speaking further, especially on the statement issued by the PPD that he wasn’t working alone, Fani-Kayode said; “whatever the main opposition party was insinuating means nothing. “Now my response to that is this. And I hope some of you are familiar with Shakespeare because I love Shakespeare’s responses. This is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying absolutely nothing. “If anybody should be investigated, arrested, prosecuted and jailed, it should be their presidential candidate. Why? Because he confessed in a tape, which we all heard, speaking about how he defrauded the whole country and stole public funds through SPVs. “We have discussed this before. So before any of them will cast aspersions against any of us, whether our candidates, our media directors, our party or any of our party leaders. “Let Atiku come and explain this SPVs and let him subject himself to investigation just as I have done and let others that have refused to go to the DSS when they were called in, let them show a bit of courage. you know who these people I don’t want to mention names.”