• Appeals for patience, markets Tinubu Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has said he is aware of hardships some policies of government were inflicting on citizens, and appealed for patience as government takes appropriate measures to ease them. Garba Shehu, the president’s spokesman in a statement, said the president spoke in a video clip to woo voters for the presidential candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, yesterday. The president, who is in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, attending an official engagements, said the currency swap policy was meant to bring overall improvement to the country not hardship. In the video recording to shore up support for Tinubu, in the upcoming elections a few days ahead, he thanked Nigerians for electing him to be president for two terms. He urged them to vote for the APC flag-bearer because “he is reliable and I know he will build on our achievements.” In the campaign message to voters, the president specifically put a call on “our traditional rulers, religious leaders and parents to warn their followers and wards alike, to not allow themselves to be used by a few to foment trouble. “I want to assure you the government has taken adequate security measures to allow everyone to come out and cast their votes. I am, therefore, appealing to everyone to give them the necessary support. Fellow Nigerians, I want to use this opportunity to, once again, thank you for electing me to be your president on two occasions. “I am not a contestant in this election, but my party, APC, has a candidate in the person of Tinubu. As I mentioned before, Tinubu is a true believer in Nigeria, who loves the people and the development of our country. “I am calling on all of you to vote for Tinubu. He is reliable and I trust he will build on our achievements. “Finally, I want to, once again, assure you I am fully aware of the current hardship you are facing as a result of some policies of the government which are meant to bring overall improvement to the country. “I am appealing to you to exercise further patience as we take appropriate measures to ease these hardships. God willing, there will be light at the end of the tunnel.” The president emphasised that the APC presidential candidate had demonstrated his commitment to the development of the country and the well-being of its people.