From Fred Itua, Abuja  The High Court of the Federal Capital Territory has restrained the Governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodimma acting through or together with the Police, the State Security Service, Ebubeagu Security Network and other security agencies from framing up, inviting, arresting, detaining or charging the opposition spokesperson and PDP House of Representatives candidate for Ideato North and South Federal Constituency, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere. The Court also barred them from coming up with any trumped up charges or allegations of commission of offences of treasonable felony, terrorism, murder, arson, kidnapping, publishing of seditious materials other threats to national security. In a ruling on an Elexparte application brought by the CUPP spokesperson, the Judge also granted prayers for substituted service of the originating processes on the Governor of Imo State and the Ebubeagu Security Network to be served through any adult staff of the Imo State liaison office, Abuja. Ugochinyere who has been attacked by armed men at least thrice since December last year has consistently pointed accusing fingers at the state government and her agents for being behind the attacks on him for his exposure of the grand manipulation of the Nigeria voters register in what is today popularly called Omuma Magic. Since then, it has been a back and forth between Mr. Ugochinyere and the Imo State Government and her agents. However, the last attack on the residence of Ikenga Ugochinyere was captured on tape by CCTV cameras showing the invaders terrorizing occupants of his house, stealing items and destroying property. The court also granted an order setting aside, quashing, invalidating and nullifying any charge filed against Ikenga or any remand order against him while also restraining the Respondents from further invading the family house and residence of Mr. Ugochinyere in Ideato or abducting beating, humiliating or assassinating him, his supporters, motorcade or campaign convoy. Justice Adepoju thereafter adjourned the matter to the 1st day of March, 2023 for the hearing of the Motion on Notice. Ends… Hakuna Matata! Fred Itua,Senior Political Correspondent,The Sun Newspaper,Abuja, Nigeria.+2348036983211 “To thine own self, be true!”~~ William Shakespeare.