From Gyang Bere, Jos Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Executive Director International Organisation for Peace Building and Social Justice (PSJ), Ishaya Inuwa Durkwa, said many families in Nigeria are impoverished as a result of persistent violent conflicts, kidnapping for ransom and displacement of communities which has compounded issues of poverty in the country. He noted that the International Organisation for Peace Building and Social Justice was established to conscientiously change the deep-rooted narratives that obliterates the peaceful co-existence of communities through evidence-based research and information. Durkwa disclosed this on Monday during a press briefing to mark the 2023 World Day for social justice in collaboration with Conference of Autochthonous Ethnic Nationalities Community Development Associations (CONAECDA) with a network of over 400 ethnic nationalities of Central and Northern Nigeria, held at the NUJ Press Centre Jos. “The 2023 World Day of Social Justice provides an opportunity to foster dialogue with the International Community, the Federal and States governments, youth, social partners, civil society, UN organisations and the Indigenous Peoples’ groups and other stakeholders on actions needed to strengthen the social contract that has been fractured by rising inequalities, conflicts and weakened institutions that are meant to protect the rights of workers and Nigerians in general. “While Nigeria as a State is faced with serious problems of youth unemployment and under-employment; the blooming population, the rise in displacement of families and communities; the destruction of lives and livelihoods and the impact of displacement of farmers has not only impacted on the livelihoods of present generations of the aged and young adults but is a sure guarantee of a very grievous future for families and children caught in the web of these violent conflicts. “Reports from the various communities affected by these violent conflicts indicates that many families have been impoverished as a result of kidnappings and payment of ransom. Many had to sell properties acquired over several generations to rescue loved ones, some have lost heads of their families thereby depriving children of the needed support for their education and psychosocial support. “Reports also indicate that Millions of Nigerians have been displaced and are currently living in IDP camps or other forms of temporary accommodation where they are denied access to their farmlands, schools and other sources of livelihoods and social development. The number of children that are out of school is increased by these displacements and this is only a guarantee of future troubles.” Durkwa lamented over the massive take over of lands left behind by the displaced families, noting that government attitude and seeming complacency as villages displaced and occupied by strangers creates serious distrust between citizens and Government. “There are cases of land grabbing, villages that were sacked, houses burnt and destroyed, farm lands destroyed, kidnappings, banditry, and all forms of crisis from the North East to the North West, North Central, South-South, South West and South East. No geo-political region is spared. Now all these atrocities going on, only proves the fact that the scale of justice must be balanced. When we rehabilitate the aggressor; we must of necessity rehabilitate the victims by acts of restorative justice.” He noted that whatever the outcome of the 2023 election and whoever emerged and next leaders should ensure that the scale of justice is balanced. “We cannot continue to play the ostrich in this nation thinking all is well, whereas the nation is imploding. On this World Day for Social Justice, we call on our government to double up on ensuring that our teaming unemployed youths are gainfully employed, otherwise they become a ready tool to perpetuate anarchy. “We call on government to bring justice to orphans and widows and ensure victims of injustices are adequately catered for because this will go a long way to break the circle of violence,” he stated.