From Ben Dunno, Warri The opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta state, has raised an alarm over alleged plot by the Governor Ifeanyi Okowa led People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to use its branded vehicles in unleashing mayhem across the state and making it look like its the party, inorder to attract undue sentiment of the electorates. The party disclosed that the APC branded vehicles which the PDP intend using in creating a state of unrest mostly in some identified APC stronghold local government areas, were already being sighted in the premises of a new commercial bank in Asaba. Making the allegation in a statement delivered at a news conference in Warri, yesterday, Delta APC Publicity Secretary, Valentine Onojeghuo Esq, noted that it has become important to let the public be aware of this plot, as the party cannot afford to have its good reputation and popularity it has built over the years to be dented by the evil agenda of PDP. According to the statement; “The Delta State All Progressives Congress (APC), wishes to inform the general public and relevant state security agencies, that we have uncovered a sinister plot by Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa and the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) to use APC branded vehicles to create mayhem and security breaches across the state, with the sole aim of tarnishing the glittering image and reputation of our great Party, the APC”. “This information has become necessary and important, hence we thought it proper to alert the general public. The branded vehicles, made in semblance of colours and logos of the APC, are hidden in the premises of a commercial bank in Asaba”. Continuing; “The intention of Okowa and the PDP, is to use these vehicles for thuggery, inflict harm and injuries on innocent citizens, in order to bring public opprobrium and hate upon the APC, as we approach the general elections”. “This satanic desperation no doubt stems from the reality that has now dawned on Okowa and the PDP, on the impending defeat that awaits them at the forthcoming polls”. It further noted that; “Having realized that the people of Delta State have finally rejected the PDP and by extension, his vice presidential ambition, Gov. Okowa and his hirelings, have now resorted to sinister schemes to arm twist voters in the State, through creating false sense of insecurity amongst the people. This he hopes will turn voters against our great Party”. “The Delta State APC by this press statement notifies the general public and all security agencies operating in the state, that as a law abiding political party, we will not succumb to wicked and cheap blackmail, nor gangsterism. Infact, we do not subscribe or tolerate criminal actions that would create insecurity and a break down of law and order in the State”. “We therefore strongly urge the security organizations in the State to take all appropriate measures to forestall and crush the nefarious intentions of Dr. Okowa and the PDP”, it stated.