From Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has donated N70 million to families of three slain police officers and an injured officer on active duty at the Okoro nu Odo (Rumuokoro) Flyover in December, 2022. Governor Wike presented the cheque of N20 million to the widows of each slain officer and N10 million to the injured officer at the Nigeria Police Headquarters, Rivers State Police Command, yesterday. Represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Tammy Danagogo, the governor commiserated with the police command and families of the slain officers. He stated that the reason the Government of Rivers State introduced the officers welfare policy is to encourage and support officers and their families in the face of fatality while on active duty and to make certain that men and women of the various security agencies who work hard to guarantee the security of Rivers State are not left alone when they suffer casualty.  He said: “We are here to let you know that the officers did not die in vain. When you serve this country and serve this state, it is never in vain. Whatever situation you find yourselves we are aware, and as a government, to identify with you. “Your husbands died while serving this country and the Rivers State government truly appreciates their efforts and contributions. We know this token will not wipe away your tears or replace your husbands, but we believe that it will impress upon your mind that your husbands died while working for a worthy cause and even God Almighty will not abandon those they left behind,” he said. Speaking to the injured officer, the governor admonished him to keep fate as the state government has taken up the expenses incurred in his recovery journey.  He added that “residents of Rivers State can testify that, indeed, the efforts of the police and other security agencies in the state is yielding dividends in terms of peace and security. It is in order to encourage you to continue in the good works and double your efforts and let you know the Government of Rivers State will always stand with you.” On his part, the Commissioner of Police, Rivers State Command, Okon Effiong, thanked the governor for honouring the families of the slain officers and standing tall with the police command in its trying times. He further charged the beneficiaries to judiciously use the token to the benefits of their families. The widow of late Inspector Enekele John, Mrs. Maria John, prayed for the blessings of God on the governor for remembering the widows and supporting the families of the slain officers. The SSG was accompanied by the Commissioner for Information and Communications, Chris Finebone, and Commissioner for Social Welfare and Rehabilitation, Mrs. Inime Aguma.