…Urges Nigerians to help suffering masses Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The leader of INRI Evangelical Spiritual Church, Primate Babatunde Elijah Ayodele, has called on Nigerians to come to the aid of the masses as scarcity of cash bites harder in the country. Primate Ayodele made this appeal on the sideline of his annual philanthropic outreach, which entered its 16th day yesterday, with the grand finale slated for Tuesday, February 14. The philanthropic outreach, which began in late January has seen the man of God doling out millions of naira to the poor, the sick, widows, orphans, churches and mosques irrespective of ethnic and religious affiliations. According to the man of God, this would continue until Tuesday, February 14, a day slated for the annual thanksgiving service of the church. Primate Ayodele who had earlier predicted the current crisis rocking the naira redesign policy and last week’s earthquake which rocked Turkey and Syria said that all hands must be on deck to support people in need and distress not only in Nigeria, but all over the globe. His words: “The cash crisis being experienced in the country may not abate until after the election. Similarly, the world must pray fervently to avoid another deadly earthquake.” He said: “In the last 17 days, we have extended hand of fellowship to churches, mosques. About 1,000 students have also benefitted with the payment of school fees, procurement of JAMB, NECO, WAEC, BECE forms. On Tuesday, 14th of February, we are going to commission houses for the less privileged. We are also going to dedicate a 200-metre road project we have constructed because we believe that the government cannot do everything. On the same day we are also going to empower journalists. We are also building a two billion naira 30,000 capacity church outside Lagos.” On the forthcoming general elections, the man of God said that the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Atiku Abubakar must adhere to the warning he issued to him earlier if he must win the election, saying that failure to abide by this warning would give the candidate of Labour Party, Peter Obi, an edge over him. “Atiku must work very hard especially in the northern part of the country to be able to win the election. God has not approved the ruling APC to win 2023 presidential election. Notwithstanding, however, Nigerians must pray against major crisis after the election because the cabal behind the current problems in Nigeria is hell-bent in installing the next president,” he declared.