From Molly Kilete, Abuja Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Ahe Nigerian Army tasks personnel on mental, physical alertness for operational successes The army has reiterated the importance of physical and mental alertness of troops as key to surmount the security challenges bedeviling the country. The army said physical training remains the bedrock of any military to succeed in its duty of defending and protecting the territorial in the nation. Acting Director, Civil Military Affairs, Army Headquarters, Brigadier General Hillary Mabeokwu, made this known at the closing ceremony of the maiden Nigerian Army Combined Combat Sports Coaching and Officiating Clinic held at the weekend in Abuja. The competition organised by the Department of Physical Training as part of its training activities for 2023, featured Judo and Taekwondo, with competitors drawn within the army. Gen Mabeokwu, who represented the Chief of Civil Military Affairs, Major General Markus Kangye, at the occasion, said that combat sports was one of the training activities aimed at enhancing the physical and mental alertness of troops and their technical abilities. He said that the training was in line with the vision of the Chief of Army Staff, “to have a professional Nigerian army ready to accomplish assigned missions within a joint environment in defence of Nigeria.” Mabeokwu, while noting that the training would go a long way to improve the expertise required to face armed combats, said the competition was organized in collaboration with other agencies and sports federations who sent in technical directors and other representatives for the competition. He said the training would go a long way to produce to represent the Nigerian army in sporting activities within and outside the military. The Acting Director, Physical Training (Army), Brigadier General Olawale Fawole, while noting that the combat sports was the first major training activities of the directorate for 2023, said the directorate had been repositioned to fulfill its mandate and attain the vision of the Chief of Army Ataff. He who said the Nigerian army would continue to use sports to improve the physical and mental alertness of personnel, pointed out that the event was conceptualized to accomplish greater achievements in sports competitions, just as he noted that army sportsmen and women had won several laurels in both local and international competitions in the past.