From Priscilla Ediare, Ado Ekiti Hon Bamidele Faparusi, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State, has knocked the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, over the naira redesign policy. The Coordinator, Contact and Mobilisation Committee Tinubu / Shettima Presidential Campaign Council in the state said the policy was wrongly implemented, noting it has brought untold hardship on the people of the country. He alleged that the CBN governor weaponised the policy with the aim of instigating the masses against the presidential candidate of the APC in the February 25 election, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The APC chieftain who stated that Tinubu is in the same boat with Nigerians and he shares their pains occasioned by the policy, urged the people of the country, especially electorate to go our en masse to the polls and vote for the APC candidate, assuring that Tinubu if elected will change the narrative. Faparusi, in a statement he personally signed on Thursday, entitled, “Asiwaju feels your pains”, reads: “We have come to the realization that the CBN governor, Mr Godwin Emefiele has weaponised the Naira redesign policy to instigate the masses against our candidate, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu. “One would expect that with the pains people are going through across the country as a result of the deliberate action of Mr Emefiele to mob-up Naira in circulation, the policy will be suspended to allow for proper planning and implementation of the initiative. “We are disappointed in the institution called CBN, they have failed the nation, they have failed to manage this change. In management there is what is called management of change and if an institution like CBN cannot seamlessly manage this policy, then CBN has failed, Emefiele has failed and they should be ashamed of themselves rather than grandstanding, destroying families, and making life unbearable for citizens. “We wish to let the people of this country know that our candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu feels your pains and sufferings which was occasioned by the mindless implementation of the Naira redesign policy. “Nigerians have come to the realization that this deliberate action of Mr Emefiele to starve the financial market of the Naira is aimed at reducing the chances of our candidate. But, we make bold to say that we are proud of our candidate, he is not with them, he is not part of them. “We wish to condemn the opposition parties especially the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) which has been encouraging the evils of this policy. Electorate should know that PDP and its cohorts are taking pleasure in the sufferings of the people, with the hope to profit from the crisis. they are your enemies, reject them at the poll, cast your vote for Asiwaju Tinubu the man that feels your pains and is ready to address them. “Finally, we want to charge the Supreme Court to commit the CBN governor, Mr Emefiele to prison for contempt of the Supreme Court on the Naira swap policy and the 10th February deadline. How could he had directed commercial banks to act in variance to the Supreme Court order to main status quo until the hearing on the case brought before it by some state governors? “Emefiele should know that CBN ACT is subject to the Supreme Court. I hope the Supreme Court will have the courage to put Emefiele where he belongs. Supreme Court should redeem itself as the last arbiter of the common man and be courageous enough to commit the CBN Governor to Prison for contempt of the court. ” People are suffering, Naira is now a commodity to be purchased at 20% above its value. infact, Emefiele is the worst thing that has happened to Nigeria in recent time, worst than Banditry, Kidnapping and Boko Haram put together. “If Nigeria can survive this madness, then nothing will ever move me about Nigeria’s existence. All of this madness is just because of one man of destiny Asiwaju Tinubu, but they missed it, Tinubu’s train has left the station and nothing will stop him from winning the presidential election come 25th February.”