By Chinelo Obogo  Special Adviser on Media to the former deputy national chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Olabode George, Olusegun Edwards, has described a call by former spokesman to presidential candidate of PDP, Atiku Abubakar, for the arrest of George as a sign of frustration and disillusionment over his loss, in his failed bid to become the party’s governorship candidate in Ogun State. Reacting to what he described as an unwarranted attack on George, he said Sowunmi is jaundiced and parochial to have made such a disdainful statement against George. “He (Sowunmi) is suffering from the disillusionment of his loss of PDP’s governorship ticket in Ogun State through the ballot box and the court process he instituted against the party flag bearer, Ladi Adebutu, who has been recognised as the undisputed candidate of PDP by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), in Ogun State,” he said. He advised Sowunmi to direct his frustration to his alleged traducers in Ogun State, rather than look for a ‘scapegoat’ or try to use George’s name as a springboard to gain the attention of the party’s top echelon. “George’s call for justice and fairness in the PDP and Sowunmi travails in Ogun State cannot be equated, to warrant a call for the arrest of the former deputy national chairman, accusing him of playing dangerous politics. What an insult? Sowunmi should rather look for other ways to please Atiku, the National Chairman of the party, Iyorchia Ayu, and the PDP director general, if he nurses the desire to do so. “It is the height of unpardonable disrespect for Sowunmi to raise his voice against a respectable Yoruba elder statesman in the calibre of George. It is disdainful for him to be disrespectful to the man old enough to be his father, a respectable figure, who Sowunmi’s elders won’t dare talk to disrespectfully,” he said. According to Edwards, Sowunmi carries a morale burden as stated by Adebutu, who condemned Sowunmi’s continual action of parading himself as a gubernatorial candidate of the party when he did not take part in the party’s primary. “Adebutu has told Sowunmi to purge himself of the illusion of becoming the PDP candidate in Ogun State as there is nothing like a factional candidate in an election, because there can only be factional aspirants and a single candidate. “While it’s not totally strange that the political landscape is getting charged with all kinds of raw emotions, jejune sentiments, deliberate vending of falsehood, half-truths, flagellation of toxic propaganda, amplification of misinformation and disinformation and all what is not, all in a bid to cast aspersions on on perceived enemies, we view Sowunmi’s ill tempered disrespect for an elder-statesman as a taboo,” he said.