As  Nigerians begin the count down to 2023 Valentine’s Day celebrations, IBOM ICON Hotel and Golf Resort Uyo, said it  is also pulling all strings to ensure a perfect romantic and rejuvenating experience for its customers as well as their loved ones this season. The hotel said is going the extra mile with very special memorable moments packages that are sure to excite its guests.  The package begins with the Nominate your Valentine challenge, where guests can win a Night stay for two, Brunch for two and 2 Boxes of Pizza. Guests can enter the challenge by picking up the nomination form and telling us what they love about their loved one. Forms are available at the hotel and selected places in Uyo. Winners will be announced at the Valentine’s Day dinner.  Also as part of Valentine’s day celebrations package, guests can celebrate love and friendship through a staycation with the hotel’s Valentine Getaway Package that offers bed and Breakfast for two, food & drinks, access to the gym, swimming pool, golf course and the Marina. This package also grants you VIP access to the hotel’s special Valentine day’s dinner with all these starting from N121,666 per couple per night. For guests, who are not staying at the hotel, but want to experience the world-class hospitality of IBOM ICON Hotel, Uyo, an exquisite celebration of love will take place on February 14 at the Bird Table (Pool Side). This will feature a Valentine’s Day dinner and entail a Red Carpet reception, Welcome Cocktail and themed buffet dinner. It will also feature comedy, karaoke, a live band, games, a love tunnel, gifts exchange, spoken word, dance, complimentary photos and prizes.  Keke and Radio Mummy will be the main hosts among many others like Captain Edet, DJ Bobo, Kayeon, Lady Willa and the Band. The dinner will cost N30,000 per couple for VIP Tables and N100,000 per couple for VVIPs in the Love Booth.   Speaking about the special offers for this year’s romantic celebrations, Charles Muia, IBOM ICON Hotel’s General Manager stated that the hotel has concluded all arrangements to make this a memorable Valentine’s Day.  “Our goal is to bring couples close under an atmosphere of love and affection. It is our pleasure to curate loving memories for all who choose IBOM ICON Hotel and Golf Resort, Uyo for this Valentine’s season and beyond,” Charles noted. Located at the end of Nwaniba Road, with a lush palm forest, IBOM ICON Hotel & Golf Resort invites you to discover and experience its beauty, offerings, and service as the promise to provide you with ONE EXPERIENCE FOR A LIFETIME OF MEMORIES