Reputed as a seasoned banker and chartered accountant, Dr. Olabisi Stephen Onasanya is a highly respected and personable executive who established a reputation at First Bank of Nigeria Limited for solid performance and sound judgment. He is widely reputed as the architect of the modern First Bank. And having spent about 21 years until his retirement on December 31, 2015 as the bank’s Group Managing Director, Onasanya had plunged into his long-time passion —the real estate industry. And he has successfully settled on the docks of Real Estate with the establishment of The Address Homes Limited, a luxury real estate company with business interests in the acquisition, development, and management of residential buildings across Nigeria. By all accounts, his passion and venture in real estate is yielding sumptuous fruits. Seven years after his retirement as First Bank boss, Onasanya is still active and relevant to his society. In recognition of his professional excellence, illustrious persona as an excellent banker and brilliant Chartered Accountant, as well as his exemplary leadership in contemporary Nigeria especially the real estate industry with positive impacts on the lives of the vast majority of people, the Senate and governing council of the Federal University, Oye Ekiti, conferred Onasanya with an Honorary Doctorate Degree in Finance at the 7th Convocation ceremony of the University, held at the Main Campus, Oye-Ekiti on Saturday, February 11, 2023. Onasanya —a suave gentleman and intellectually fertile colossus— was decorated during the well-attended ceremony by the Vice Chancellor of FUOYE, Professor Abayomi Fasina alongside two other prominent Nigerians —football legend, Segun Odegbami, and legal luminary, Chief Wole Olanipekun, SAN. During his acceptance speech, an elated Onasanya, who was accompanied to the event by his wife, Helen Onasanya and some of his close friends and associates, announced a donation of N1 million to the FUOYE’s best-graduating student in Accounting, a 24-year-old lady, Oyedele Abibat Adejoke, who bagged first class in Accounting.