From Paul Osuyi, Asaba The Commissioner of Police in charge of elections in Delta State, Mr. John Babangida, yesterday, declared that the services of non-state actors were not needed throughout the election process. Specifically, Mr. Babangida warned anti-cult volunteers, vigilantes and hunters to steer clear of polling units, collation centres and the entire process. He warned that any of them caught meddling in the election process would be dealt with decisively. His warning was contained in a statement issued by the Public Relations Officer of the state police command, DSP Bright Edafe. Advising residents to conduct themselves in accordance with the extant laws, CP Babangida urged them to be law abiding, assuring that the command will not compromise in carrying out its primary responsibility of ensuring the protection of life and property, as well as preservation of public tranquillity before, during, and after the elections. The statement disclosed that three additional commissioners of police were deployed to the state for the purpose of the general elections.  The statement noted that CP Mamman U. Sanda will take charge of Delta north senatorial district; CP Zachariah Fera for Delta south senatorial district, and CP Adebola Hamzat for Delta central senatorial district. Edafe stated that the “command in synergy with other sister agencies, has deployed massively personnel across the state, all polling units, RACs, collation centres, and INEC offices, to ensure a hitch election and, also, protect the electorate and INEC officials.  “Marine police have equally been deployed to the water ways to ensure that area, too, is peaceful during the election.” He reiterated the directive on restriction of movement on February 25 and March 11, adding that “only officials on emergency and essential duties, which includes accredited election monitors and observers, will be allowed passage during this time.  “While regretting the inconveniences this will cause, members of the public are, therefore, advised to adhere to this instruction, as anyone found wanting will be made to face the full wrath of the law. “The ban on VIP escorts during the election still stands.  “They are, therefore, advised not to move with their security details on election day, and any officer found wanting will be arrested and sanctioned accordingly.”