By Maduka Nweke The Chairman, The Address Homes, Mr. Olabisi Onasanya, has advised young graduates of Federal University, Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE to do anything in their lives to uphold integrity. Onasanya in appreciating the school, promised to give yearly scholarships to the best students of Accounting and Real Estate Management as a means of giving back to society and encouraging the young ones. “I thank God that after seven years of my retirement as the Group Managing Director of First Bank, I am still relevant”. We should be able to give back to Society and perform our duty wherever we find ourselves so as to encourage the young ones.”, he declared. Advising the young graduates, Onasanya said; “Take everything you have learnt in the course of your time here as a tool to help with solving people’s problems. Education is not an end in itself. It is a means to an end. The end is to create solutions for people you meet throughout your life. “Secondly, and please see this as vital, integrity is key! I usually say, “If money is lost, nothing is lost. If health is lost, something is lost. However, if integrity is lost, everything is lost.” In his remarks, the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Abayomi Fasina, said that the institution within the shortest time of creation has carved a niche for itself on international grid of academic excellence. The Chairman was conferred with an Honourary Doctorate Degree (Honaris Causas) in Finance at the 7th Convocation ceremony of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE) held at the Main Campus, Oye-Ekiti, Ekiti State on Saturday, February 11, 2023.  A former Group Managing Director/CEO of First Bank Plc, Onasanya was decorated during a well-attended ceremony, by the Vice Chancellor of FUOYE, Professor Abayomi Fasina, Chancellor, HRM. Alhaji Matthew Opaluwa and members of the University Senate alongside two other prominent Nigerians; football legend, Segun Odegbami, and legal luminary, Wole Olanipekun. In his acceptance speech, Onasanya expressed gratitude to the Vice-Chancellor, the Governing Council, the Senate, staff and students of the University for finding him deserving of such an exalted honour as he promised not to relent on his efforts. While congratulating the graduands on the academic feats, Fasina admonished