…Positive comments trail demise From Tony Osauzo, Benin  The police community in Edo State was yesterday morning thrown into mourning following the death of the Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) Zone 5, comprising Edo and Delta States, Alhaji Tanko Lawal Jimeta.  It was learnt that the police officer was rushed to the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH) in Ugbowo  on Wednesday, February 8th, after he reportedly collapsed in his office at Adesuwa Grammar School Road, GRA, Benin City. Sources at the hospital told Daily Sun that the health condition of the AIG was diagnosed to be severe stroke which led to hemorrhage. Medical Doctors were said to have battled to save his life through surgery but the top Police Officer could not make it. The news of his death triggered avalanche of positive comments about the life and achievements of the departed AIG. “We were all praying fervently and expecting that he will soon be discharged and allowed to go home after he must have fully recovered from the health issue only to hear this morning (Sunday, February 12th, 2023) that he had given up the ghost. “His passage will no doubt come as a shock to many people considering that before now he had no noticeable health challenge”, a source said.  Meanwhile, the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, has on behalf of the Force Management team, and Officers of the Nigeria Police Force, announced the demise of AIG Jimeta, who he described “a great poet and philosopher, a passionate officer and peace lover”. The IGP in a statement signed by the Force Public Relations Officer, CSP Olumiluyiwa Adejobi, said “AIG Jimeta, who hailed from Jimeta in Yola North Local Government Area of Adamawa State, served in various administrative, investigative, training, and operational capacities during his almost 34 years stint in the policing career. He was a one-time Director of Peacekeeping, Commissioner of Police in charge of the Police Mobile Force, Edo and Bauchi State Commands, Commandant Police Academy, and was until his death the Assistant Inspector-General of Police in charge of Zone 5 Benin, Edo State.  “The late AIG enlisted into the Nigeria Police Force on 3rd March 1990 and was a dedicated officer with a great passion for training and mentorship in the field of security intelligence and peace support operations. A philosopher and poet per excellence, he has a collection of poems tagged “Song of the Peacekeeper” to his credit, and has featured on every edition of the Police ‘New Dawn Magazine’ as a guest poet. “The Inspector-General of Police acknowledges his ingenuity and commitment to duty. He hereby condoles with the immediate family, relatives, fellow coursemates, and friends of the deceased AIG who passed away in active service of his fatherland and prays earnestly for the repose of his soul”.