By Christian Agadibe After a stiff competition, Sarah Chukwu recently emerged the winner of Okpanku beauty pageant, which held in Enugu State under the umbrella of Emvirtue Network, also a co-organiser of Miss Olamma beauty pageant.  According to Chukwu, she wasn’t expecting to emerge winner, as it was her first time out in beauty competition. In this rare interview, the Nursing student from Nnamdi Azikwe University traced her sojourn into pageantry. Please enjoy it. How did you get to know about Okpanku beauty pageant? I travelled home and a relative of mine posted the flier via WhatsApp, so I asked him to send the flier directly to me, that I’m interested and he advised me to try it out. I registered and started the process, and along the way I almost gave up because I didn’t really know much about pageantry coupled with the fact that I do not often visit the East. However, my mother further encouraged me and told me not to give up. What lessons did you take away from the boot camp? One of the things I learnt from the whole process was how to catwalk, I was never the cat walking type. I also learnt to be courageous, to always be myself and do my thing my own way. How has the experience been since emerging the Okpanku beauty queen? It has been great, as people honour me wherever I go. It’s being a great privilege indeed. What has changed in your life since becoming a beauty queen? Many things have changed. First of all, being a beauty queen, my movement has changed. Now, there are places I don’t go to anymore. That’s a steppingstone to achieving greater heights, as I am no longer where I used to be. Is there anything about being in the limelight that you don’t like? Nothing. I have not really seen anything I do not like. Were you expecting to emerge a winner? To be sincere, I wasn’t expecting to emerge a winner. I would just say God was on my side, and He came through for me. What do you think stands you out from the rest of the participants? The judges would be able to tell more about that. But due to what I heard from people, my boldness, courage and the pet project I proposed did it for me. Can you shed more lights on what you mean by boldness, as we believe other participants were equally bold? I mean the courage to stand in front of many people and do your thing your own way. Though, there were other contestants equally as bold and courageous, it was God that did it for me. Tell us about your pet project? I promised that if I should emerge winner of Okpanku Beauty Pageant, I would open a fashion school where young ladies – graduates, under-graduates and even secondary school leavers especially from my state – can come and learn fashion. Have you ever dreamt of winning this pageant? Yes, it has always been my dream to be beauty queen. I remember that was one of my prayer points in December 31, 2022. Even people from my village were all praying for me to become the winner. Going forward, as the new queen, what are your goals? One of the things I would achieve is fame. Though, I am still looking into my next plan, I know this is actually taking me higher. Have you ever craved for fame before? Yes I have. I am the type of person that loves to dream big. What’s next for you after graduation from nursing school? I’m still looking into it. But definitely, I will finish with my study in Nursing and if there is a way I can be doing both Nursing and pageantry, then I would give it my best. How do you intend to combine being a nurse and beauty queen? I know it’s never going to be easy but time will tell. Aside being a nurse, is there any other thing you do? After my secondary school, I learnt make-up. I still have plans to go into makeup business. I can also make hair and wig. That’s the reason my pet project was focused on opening a fashion school. I found out that making dresses bring money for young people. Has this really affected your life positively? Yes, it has. Being a beauty queen has affected my mindset, my thinking, my movement and so many other things. What impact do you think this pageantry has brought to your community? It has made people to travel home from within Nigeria and all over the world. It’s a great event that made our community to advance.  Are you in a relationship? Yes. Has being a beauty queen come between you and the man in your life? No, not at all. How supportive has your man been to you? My man has been very supportive; he’s always encouraging me having seen my potential.  Who do you look up to in terms of beauty? Adesua Etomi-Wellington. I watch most of her movies and I love her simple and classy look. Would you like to also go into acting? No, I wouldn’t want to. What advice would you give to an aspiring young lady aiming to be beauty queen? I would advise young girls out there, especially from my town to be courageous and endeavor to participate in beauty pageants. I found out that they are always timid. So, I’m encouraging young ladies to come out and participate in beauty contest. You will discover your real you and you would go higher.