A keen look at Olubunmi Bella Disu —whether from afar or at flank —shows power, finesse and grace. Bella, the gorgeous second daughter of the wealthy business mogul, Dr. Mike Adenuga Jnr., exhibits and radiates those virtues effortlessly.  She’s is one of a kind with beauty and brains, and surely knows how to hold her ground, tame business rivals and avoid distractions capable of impeding the smooth roll of her exploits in every field of endeavour. But set aside her pedigree as an uber-billionaire’s daughter, Bella, surely, is a chip off the old block. Of course, Adenuga’s children are not moulded like other billionaires’ kids. They are decent, almost Spartan, very hardworking and respectful. On her own merits, she is gradually turning a business guru and joining the select few African women chairing Board of Directors of major companies. At age 33, this elegant power broker already sat on four multi-billion dollar boards and now 37, she presently serves as vice chairman of Globacom, and sits on the board of Julius Berger Nigeria Plc; led the board of Abumet Plc, a Nigerian glass and aluminium manufacturing company and then Cobblestone Properties, the real estate development company that she controls. Yet, Bella has surprisingly led a very unobtrusive lifestyle. She has not got impressed with the trappings of wealth neither has she joined in the social media craze where many vainly showcase their old men’s wealth. This trait seems to have further boosted her father’s confidence who assigned her bigger responsibilities. Right now, Bella is building a multimillion-dollar shopping mall in Opebi, the commercial hub of Ikeja, Lagos. The new shopping mall christened “Ile-Oja Opebi” is sitting conspicuously along the ever-busy Opebi-Allen Road in Ikeja. The expansive shopping mall —being developed by Cobblestone— has three floors with available lettable spaces from 75 square meters to 890 square meters.  It is 98-percent complete, and is expected to open its doors to the public in the first quarter of 2023. Cobblestone —established in 2011— owns a portfolio of landmark residential and commercial properties across Nigeria ranging from high rise apartments, terraced apartments and detached houses, to office spaces and retail shops. In 2019, Cobblestone launched Sisi Paris, a ten-storey luxury apartment complex in Ikoyi, Lagos. Aside from her interest in business, Bella is also the founder and president of Bella Disu Foundation, a non-profit organization that provides education and employment skills to disadvantaged children.