By Ibitoye Abosede  The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has inaugurated the four-kilometre road in Etegwe-Agudama-Epie, Yenagoa Local Government Area of Bayelsa State.   Speaking during the inauguration, the managing director of the NDDC, Dr. Samuel Ogbuku, promised that the commission would continue to deliver quality projects for the benefit of the people of the Niger Delta region. The NDDC chief executive officer, who was accompanied by the Bayelsa State representative on the board of the commission, Senator Denyanbofa Dimaro, and other directors, charged the communities served by the road to ensure that they played their part to protect and maintain the project. He commended the youths of Etegwe, Agudama and Epie for being very peaceful and providing the enabling environment for the contractor to complete work on the road on shedule. Ogbuku said that the commission would continue to execute projects that positively impact on the lives of people across the Niger Delta region.  He observed: “This area was very swampy before NDDC intervened. Now the entire neighbourhood has been transformed.” The NDDC boss said it was important for the commission to inaugurate its projects, noting: “We need to let our partners and the various stakeholders in the Niger Delta region know what we are doing with the resources available to us.” He expressed satisfaction with the performance of the indigenous contractor that executed the road project stating that it was a testimony to the commitment of some local contractors to the objective of delivering quality projects to the people. Giving a brief on the road, the NDDC director, Bayelsa State office, Engr. Theophilus Allagoa, said that the internal road linking Dogood Extension to White Church Road would enhance efficient transport system for goods and services, open the area for more development and improve security. In his remarks, the paramount ruler of Etegwe community, Chief Ile Gard, praised the NDDC for promptly responding to their distress call and building a standard road in the area. He affirmed that the completion of the road had increased economic and social activities between his community and adjoining areas. He added: “The community is now more peaceful as both young and old people are now busy with various economic activities, thus keeping them away from crime.” •Ibitoye Abosede, Ph.D., director, corporate affairs, NDDC