From Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The spokesman of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), Imo Ugochinyere, has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to stop the bloodbath in Imo, ahead of the 2023 general elections. Ugochinyere stated this at a press briefing, on Wednesday, in Abuja. He said there cannot be free, fair and credible elections in an atmosphere of insecurity. The opposition spokesman, whose home was home, in Akokwa, in Imo State, recently, charged the President to direct the arrest and prosecution of those unleashing mayhem in the state. Ugochinyere, who is also the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for Ideato Federal Constituency, said those behind the attack on his home, in which several lives were lost and property destroyed, were out to silence him. “These sponsors of the Akokwa mayhem had wished that even though their killer agents missed me by the whiskers that I would at least be too shocked and afraid to speak about the things I know, but I believe that the greatest weapon of the oppressor is fear; once they are able to frighten you but despite the carnage, our will has been made stronger. “We are stronger and our faith in God also stronger than ever before. We will be returning home to finish strong the people’s project of providing a strong voice and effective representation for our people. “We hope that the NSA, Mr President, in keeping to their promise, should direct for arrest and prosecution of these vultures that have taken over Imo and stop the blood bath,” he said. The CUPP spokesman also charged the Federal Government to explore a political solution in the case involving the detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra ( IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, noting that it will bring about genuine reconciliation in the South East. According to him, “let me state once again, I believe that the political solution to the insecurity in the South East begins with the release of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. “Relying on the judgments of Court from the Federal High Court in Umuahia and also the Court of Appeal sitting in Abuja, the government can release Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and begin the healing process from there. It will lead to the identification of those who have genuine agitations and criminals who have taken advantage of the situation to wreak havoc on our people. “But those who are making billions from the business of insecurity thriving in Imo and South East today will not want to hear this. For this reason and to stop me from exposing their plans for the worst political heist in our land, Ikenga must die. But unfortunately, they are not my creator.”