By Christopher Oji  The Lagos State Commissioner of Police Mr. Idowu Owohunwa has warned men and officers of his commad against accidental discharge. The CP said that there should not be any excuse of blaming the mismagement of riffle on accidental discharge as it does not exist in police duty . He gave the warning, Wednesday evening, during  familiarisation tour to all police formations under his control, saying,“I will not take accidental discharge from any of my officers. Infact, there is nothing like accidental discharge and it must not happen. “Someone cocks  his riffle  and that the same person fires ; you call it accidental discharge. No, I will not accept it. No one will be spared for accidental discharge  in this command. There is nothing like accidental discharge”. The CP visited Area G Ogba and Area F Ikeja respectively, where he addressed the Divisional Police Officers, DPOs, in the areas and urged the officers and men to be professional in their conducts as he would deal decisively with every unprofessionalism by any one under the command . He also requested  that the Area Commanders and DPOs should furnish him with all the black spots under their jurisdictions and how they were being  checkmated,and to keep him informed on the challenges they were facing in discharging their duties . Earlier, Owohunwa,  visited the Lagos State Security Trust Fund, LSSTF, where he met with the Executive Secretary of the fund, Dr. Abdulrasaq Balogun, and requested for continuous support of the Force . The LSSTF boss assured that the   fund would always support the police and other security agencies in the state. Balogun said the fund  has always been cooperative and working with  former CPs in the state, stressing, that the fund would not relent on its’ mandate of assisting the force and sister agencies.  He explained that the fund was established to save people and their property in Lagos State. CP Owohunwa, took over the baton of leadership of police command in Lagos from CP Abiodun Alabi, now Acting AIG in charge of Zone 2, Onikan. At the event on Tuesday, Owohunwa said he was going to hit the ground running immediately, stressing that he would visit many police formations  unannounced. He said he was motivated by the fact that the Police Command in the State was blessed with the most resilient, highly diligent, dedicated, and passionate police officers. CP Owohunwa said he would  optimally leverage on the strengths of the command to positively change the policing narratives in the state.