From Paul Orude, Bauchi Please enable JavaScript This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Bauchi State Government has approved the sum of N44 million for the conduct of the 2023 vaccinating campaign across the State. Governor Bala Mohammed disclosed this on Monday at the launching of the 2023 Annual Livestock Mass Vaccination Campaign in Kangere. “Annual Vaccines Provide immunity against major Transboundary Animal Disease (TADS) for a period of one year,” he said. “This necessitates the need for the annual ritual of vaccinating our animals. “As an improvement in the exercise, New Castle Disease (CD-12) Vaccine has been added to the 2 major vaccines normally administered in the State (i.e. Contagious Bovie Pleuropneumonia (CBPP) and Pestes de Pestes Ruminanciumk (PPR). “The newly introduced NCD-12 vaccine is to be administered to local chickens belonging to our rural people in order to prevent losses being incurred annually due to New Castle Disease “So far, 1Million doses (10,000 vials) of CBPP Vaccine for Cattle, 500,000 doses (500) Viais) of PPR Vaccine for Sheep and Goat and 400,000 doses (2,000 vials) of NCD-12 Vaccine for poultry have been procured and ready to be administered to three (3) categories of animals across the 20 Local Government Aras of the State” Governor Mohammed said the Annual Livestock Vaccination Campaign has been sustained by his administration since he came on board because of its importance in preventing animal disease outbreaks and making animal production in the State disease free and profitable. “The importance attached to agriculture by my Administration has been underscored by our development of agricultural transformation strategy even before we took over the mantle of leadership of the State in 2019” he stated. “This bold and deliberate initiative was informed by the fact that agriculture is the economic mainstay of the State. “Indeed, over 70% of the people of the State have agriculture as their preoccupation and means of livelihood. “Livestock production being an integral part of agriculture is a full time vocation for wealth creation along its value chain which goes a long way in serving as means of employment and keeping our youths away from many societal vices,” He said the role of the livestock subsector in the provision of protein and of economic empowerment necessitated the need to improve and strengthen veterinary services in the State. “It was for this reason that less than three months into our administration, I made and fulfilled some pledges to the Veterinary Sector, some of which include donation of an 18 Seater Ford Galaxy Bus to the Nigerian Veterinary Medical Association (NVMA) Bauchi State Chapter in order to ameliorate their transportation challenges,” he said. “In addition, I pledged to build a befitting modern Veterinary Specialist Clinic at Ran Road, Bauchi with a view to improving efficient and effective delivery in Veterinary Services, and to have a referral Veterinary facility that will serve our people and generate revenue to the State. “I am happy to inform you that I have granted approval for the award of contract for the building of the clinic. The contract has been awarded, site for the construction has been formally handed over to the contractor and, by God’s grace mobilization funds will be made available to the contracting firm to ensure commencement of work on the project immediately” The governor called on staff of the Ministry of Agriculture involved in the vaccination exercise to remain committed and ensure that all nooks and crannies of the State are adequately covered. “I equally urge the benefiting stakeholders to cooperate with the Ministry staff by massively bringing out their animals to be vaccinated,” he said. “I hereby also direct the Ministry for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs to immediately release approved allowances to Local Government staff who are participating in the exercise” He assured all stakeholders in the livestock sector of his Government’s total resolve to continue to partner with them in order to boost livestock development in the State. “Government is ready and willing to support all MDAs who show initiative, commitment and dedication for the benefit of our people,” he said.